Man Utd stroll to Cup win Wayne Rooney made a winning return to Everton as Manchester United cruised into the FA Cup quarter-finals. Rooney received a hostile reception, but goals in each half from Quinton Fortune and Cristiano Ronaldo silenced the jeers at Goodison Park. Fortune headed home after 23 minutes before Ronaldo scored when Nigel Martyn parried Paul Scholes' free-kick. Marcus Bent missed Everton's best chance when Roy Carroll, who was later struck by a missile, saved at his feet. Rooney's return was always going to be a potential flashpoint, and he was involved in an angry exchange with a spectator even before kick-off. And Rooney's every touch was met with a deafening chorus of jeers from the crowd that once idolised the 19-year-old. Everton started brightly and Fortune needed to be alert to scramble away a header from Bent near the goal-line. But that was the cue for United to take complete control with a supreme passing display on a Goodison Park pitch that was cutting up. Fortune gave United the lead after 23 minutes, rising to meet Ronaldo's cross from eight yards after the Portuguese youngster had been allowed too much time and space by the hapless Gary Naysmith. United dominated without creating too many clear-cut chances, and they almost paid the price for not making the most of their domination two minutes before half-time. Mikel Arteta played a superb ball into the area but Bent, played onside by Gabriel Heintze, hesitated and Carroll plunged at his fee to save. United almost doubled their lead after 48 minutes when Ronaldo's low drive from 25 yards took a deflection off Tony Hibbert, but Martyn dived to save brilliantly. And Martyn came to Everton's rescue three minutes later when Rooney's big moment almost arrived as he raced clean through, but once again the veteran keeper was in outstanding form. But there was nothing Martyn could do when United doubled their lead after 57 minutes as they doubled their advantage. Scholes' free-kick took a deflection, and Martyn could only parry the ball out for Ronaldo, who reacted first to score easily. Everton's problems worsened when James McFadden limped off with an injury. And there may be further trouble ahead for Everton after goalkeeper Carroll required treatment after he was struck on the head by a missile thrown from behind the goal. Rooney's desperate search for a goal on his return to Everton was halted again by Martyn in injury-time when he outpaced Stubbs, but once again Martyn denied the England striker. - Manchester United coach Sir Alex Ferguson: "It was a fantastic performance by us. In fairness I think Everton have missed a couple of players and got some young players out. "The boy Ronaldo is a fantastic player. He's persistent and never gives in. "I don't know how many fouls he had He gets up and wants the ball again, he's truly a fabulous player." Everton: Martyn, Hibbert, Yobo, Stubbs, Naysmith, Osman, Carsley, Arteta, Kilbane, McFadden, Bent. Subs: Wright, Pistone, Weir, Plessis, Vaughan. Manchester United: Carroll, Gary Neville, Brown, Ferdinand, Heinze, Ronaldo, Phil Neville, Keane, Scholes, Fortune, Rooney. Subs: Howard, Giggs, Smith, Miller, Spector. Referee: R Styles (Hampshire)
Van Nistelrooy set to return Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy may make his comeback after an Achilles tendon injury in the FA Cup fifth round tie at Everton on Saturday. He has been out of action for nearly three months and had targeted a return in the Champions League tie with AC Milan on 23 February. But Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson hinted he may be back early. He said: "There is a chance he could be involved at Everton but we'll just have to see how he comes through training." The 28-year-old has been training in Holland and Ferguson said: "Ruud comes back on Tuesday and we need to assess how far on he is. "The training he has been doing in Holland has been perfect and I am very satisfied with it." Even without Van Nistelrooy, United made it 13 wins in 15 league games with a 2-0 derby victory at Manchester City on Sunday. But they will be boosted by the return of the Dutch international, who is the club's top scorer this season with 12 goals. He has not played since aggravating the injury in the 3-0 win against West Brom on 27 November. Ferguson was unhappy with Van Nistelrooy for not revealing he was carrying an injury. United have also been hit by injuries to both Alan Smith and Louis Saha during Van Nistelrooy's absence, meaning Wayne Rooney has sometimes had to play in a lone role up front. The teenager has responded with six goals in nine games, including the first goal against City on Sunday.
Moyes U-turn on Beattie dismissal Everton manager David Moyes will discipline striker James Beattie after all for his headbutt on Chelsea defender William Gallas. The Scot initially defended Beattie, whose dismissal put Everton on the back foot in a game they ultimately lost 1-0, saying Gallas overreacted. But he has had a rethink after looking over the video evidence again. He said: "I believe that I should set the record straight by conceding that the dismissal was right and correct." Moyes added: "My comments on Saturday came immediately after the final whistle and at a point when I had only had the opportunity to see one, very quick re-run of the incident." The club website also reported that Beattie, who seemed unrepentant after Saturday's match, insisting Gallas "would have stayed down a lot longer" if he had headbutted him, has now apologised. Moyes continued: "Although the incident was totally out of character - James has never even been suspended before in his career - his actions were unacceptable and had a detrimental effect on his team-mates. "James did issue a formal apology to myself, his team-mates and to the Everton supporters immediately after the game and that was the right thing to have done. He will now be subjected to the normal club discipline. "He is a competitive player but a fair player and I know how upset he is by what has happened. However, I must say that I do still believe the Chelsea player in question did go down too easily." Speaking immediately after the game, Moyes said: "I don't think it was a sending-off, I have been a centre-half in my time and I would have been ashamed to have gone down as easily as that. "Not in a million years would John Terry have gone down in the same way. I have never heard of anybody butting somebody from behind while you are running after them. "What has happened to big, strong centre-halves? I thought it was a push initially and I still don't think it was a sending-off." An angry Beattie initially said: "He (Gallas) would have stayed down a lot longer if I had headbutted him. "I can tell you it wasn't an intentional headbutt. We were chasing a ball into the corner and William Gallas was looking over his shoulder and blocking me off. "He was stopping as we were running and I said to myself 'if you're going to stay in my way I'll go straight over you'. Our heads barely touched and it wasn't an intentional headbutt."
Ronaldo considering new contract Manchester United winger Cristiano Ronaldo said he is close to agreeing to a new contract at Old Trafford. The Portugal star, who joined in August 2003 on a five-year-deal, is a regular in the United first-team. "The United board have already made an offer to renew the contract but I'm trying not to think about it," he told the News of the World. "My agent has spoken with the club and it will be resolved soon. I think we'll reach a good agreement for both sides." Ronaldo refused to commit his long-term future to the club. "Nobody knows what will come tomorrow. I like being here, but who knows," he added. "There aren't many bigger and better clubs than this one. It's my ambition to be at a big club. I'm happy but nobody knows the future."
Smith keen on Home series return Scotland manager Walter Smith has given his backing to the reinstatement of the Home International series. Such a plan is to be proposed by the new chief executive of the Northern Irish FA, Howard Wells, at the next meeting of the four home countries. The English FA has expressed doubt as to whether the fixtures could be accommodated at the end of each season. But Smith said: "Bringing it back would add meaning to friendly games and that's something that's needed." The Home International series was done away with in 1984, with the traditional Scotland-England fixture continuing until 1989. That game is one Smith would be delighted to see reinstated. "The Scotland v England match was a highlight of the end of the season," he added. "I was in Italy for their friendly with Russia last week and they made seven substitutions while only around 20,000 fans turned up to watch. "England were criticised for the 0-0 draw against Holland - the way Scotland were slammed in the past for poor results in friendlies. "You have to put a performance on in friendly games. If you don't, they can be de-motivating. "It can be a dangerous road to go down, if players don't apply themselves in the manner they should. "So I would support the return of the home internationals - the only problem would be fitting them in to the fixture schedule."
Mido makes third apology Ahmed 'Mido' Hossam has made another apology to the Egyptian people in an attempt to rejoin the national team. The 21-year-old told a news conference in Cairo on Sunday that he is sorry for the problems that have led to his exclusion from the Pharaohs since July last year. Mido said: "There isn't much I have to say today, all there is to say is that I came specially from England to Egypt to rejoin the national team and to apologise for all my mistakes." Mido was axed by former coach Marco Tardelli after failing to answer a national call-up, claiming he had a groin injury. But he then played in a friendly for his club AS Roma within 24 hours of a World Cup qualifying match at home to Cameroon last September. Mido added: "It's not my right to give orders and say when I want to play ... at the same time I will always make sure that I put the national's team's matches as my top priority. "I feel that the national players are playing with a new spirit as I saw them play against Belgium (Egypt won 4-0 on Wednesday) and I simply want to add to their success. "I do confess that I was rude to the Egyptian press at times but now I have gained more experience and know that I will never go anywhere without the press's support. "Many of the international stars like David Beckham and (Zinedine) Zidane had the press opposing them. "So I'm now used to the fact that the press can be against me at times and I don't have to overreact when this happens. Meanwhile, Egypt FA spokesman Methat Shalaby welcomed the apology and said no one had exerted pressure on Mido to apologise. "Mido's apology today does not negatively affect Mido in anyway, on the contrary it makes him a bigger star and a role model for all football players," Shalaby said. Shalaby earlier said that after an apology Mido would be available for the national side if coach Hassan Shehata chose him. Mido joined Tottenham in an 18-month loan deal near the end of the January transfer window, scoring twice on his debut against Portsmouth.
Man City 0-2 Man Utd Manchester United reduced Chelsea's Premiership lead to nine points after a scrappy victory over Manchester City. Wayne Rooney met Gary Neville's cross to the near post with a low shot, which went in via a deflection off Richard Dunne, to put United ahead. Seven minutes later, the unfortunate Dunne hooked a volley over David James' head and into his own net. Steve McManaman wasted City's best chance when he shot wide from three yards in the first half. In the opening 45 minutes United had looked unlikely to earn the win they needed to maintain any chance of catching Chelsea in the title race. Their approach play was more laboured than patient and they managed to fashion just one chance - a Paul Scholes header over the bar. And City seemed to be content to sit back and try and hit their rivals on the break as the game settled into a tepid pattern. Only Shaun Wright-Phillips appeared capable of interrupting the monotony, looking lively down the right and causing Gabriel Heinze problems. Wes Brown also found Wright-Phillips to be a difficult opponent when the tricky winger embarrassed him near the touchline. Wright-Phillips' sublime skill and pace took him past Brown and he delivered a pin-point centre to the feet of McManaman. But the former Liverpool player demonstrated why he has never scored against United by side-footing the easy chance wide. John O'Shea was forced off after an earlier clash with Sylvain Distin and Cristiano Ronaldo came on to replace him. He immediately caused Ben Thatcher some discomfort and looked set to inject some much-needed pace into the United attack. Rooney was being well marshalled by Dunne - but that was all about to change. After the break, United poured forward and there was a renewed urgency about their play. And when Neville delivered a cross in a carbon copy of City's best first-half chance, Rooney showed McManaman how to do it - even if he needed the help of Dunne's leg. Worse was to come for Dunne, who had been having a fine match. On 75 minutes, he scored a horrible own goal when attempting to volley clear Rooney's cross and United seemed home and dry. However, City did fight back and Fowler missed another great chance from close range. And United keeper Roy Carroll saved well from Kiki Musampa. But United could have a had a third late on when substitute Ryan Giggs hit the post. - Manchester City boss Kevin Keegan: "We had a great chance to take the lead and the first goal was always going to be crucial. "We started off with a good tempo but then we allowed them to dictate the pace a bit too much. "But we still had four good chances, two after we'd gone 2-0 down, the one McManaman missed was very similar to the one Wayne Rooney scored from." - Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson: "It wasn't our best performance of the last three months but I think we're deserved winners. "At times, especially in the first half, we didn't play with enough speed. But with (Cristiano) Ronaldo and (Ryan) Giggs on, the speed improved. "Derby games can be like that, they can be scrappy, dull, horrible and it was maybe like that." Man City: James, Mills (Bradley Wright-Phillips 83), Dunne, Distin, Thatcher, Shaun Wright-Phillips, Barton (Macken 68), Sibierski, McManaman, Musampa, Fowler. Subs Not Used: Weaver, Onuoha, Flood. Booked: Fowler, Sibierski. Man Utd: Carroll, Gary Neville, Ferdinand, Brown, Heinze, O'Shea (Ronaldo 33), Keane, Fortune, Fletcher (Giggs 64), Rooney, Scholes (Phil Neville 84). Subs Not Used: Howard, Bellion. Booked: Rooney, Scholes, Keane. Goals: Rooney 68, Dunne 75 og. Att: 47,111 Ref: S Bennett (Kent).
Gerrard plays down European hopes Steven Gerrard has admitted that Liverpool have little chance of winning the Champions League this season. The 24-year-old Reds skipper spoke out ahead of Tuesday's first leg at home to Bayer Leverkusen in the last 16, which he will miss through suspension. "Let's be realistic, there are some fantastic teams left in the Champions League," he told BBC Radio Five Live. "We are just going to try to stay in as long as possible but we realise that maybe it is not our year this year." Gerrard has made no secret of his desire to be involved in Europe's premier club competition. Last season he described qualification for the Champions League as the "be all and end all" - and rumours persist that he will leave Anfield if the Reds fail to secure a place in the competition. He has consistently been linked with a move away from Liverpool, with Chelsea the favourites to snap up the England midfielder. And Blues boss Jose Mourinho backed Gerrard's view that Rafael Benitez's team could struggle to progress this season. "Rafa has still time in front of him to build an even better team, maybe he's a little bit behind (right now)," he told BBC Radio Five Live. Gerrard, who fired Liverpool into the last 16 of this season's competition with a brilliant goal in December's win over Olympiakos, insisted he was still fully focused on helping Liverpool to glory this season. The Reds are currently fifth in the Premiership table, five points off the crucial fourth spot, which brings Champions League qualification - and they face Chelsea in Sunday's Carling Cup final. "It's big couple of months for Liverpool," he added. "We're fighting for the fourth spot for the Champions League for next season but we are still involved in two cup competitions, which are very important. "We are confident we can upset Chelsea in the Carling Cup final and get to the last eight of the Champions League because, financially, it is big for the club and, personally for myself, it is very good."
Duff ruled out of Barcelona clash Chelsea's Damien Duff has been ruled out of Wednesday's Champions League clash with Barcelona at the Nou Camp. Duff sustained a knee injury in the FA Cup defeat at Newcastle and manager Jose Mourinho said: "He cannot run. His injury is very painful, so he is out." But Mourinho has revealed defender Willian Gallas and striker Didier Drogba will be in the starting line-up. The Blues boss took the unusual step of naming his side a day before the match, with Jole Cole named in midfield. Mourinho said: "We have one more session but I think Drogba will play, and Gallas will play. "Drogba trained on Monday with no problems and will do the same on Tuesday. Gallas feels he can play and wants to play. We are protecting him still but he will be okay to play." Drogba, Chelsea's £24m striker, has missed the last three weeks through injury. Cech, Ferreira, Carvalho, Terry, Gallas, Tiago, Makelele, Lampard, Cole, Drogba, Gudjohnsen.
Chelsea clinch cup in extra-time (after extra-time - score at 90 mins 1-1) John Arne Riise volleyed Liverpool ahead after 45 seconds but Steven Gerrard scored a 79th-minute own goal. Blues boss Jose Mourinho was sent off for taunting Liverpool fans after the goal and he watched on television as his side went on to win the game. Drogba and Kezman scored from close range before Antonio Nunez's header made for a tense finale. It was an amazing climax which gave Mourinho his first silverware as Chelsea manager. Yet it was controversial too, after Mourinho's sending off, apparently for putting his finger to his lips to hush the Liverpool fans. There was no hushing them after the extraordinary opening in which the Reds took a stunning lead inside the first minute. Riise could not have connected any better with Morientes' cross as he smashed a left-foot volley past Petr Cech. The goal, the quickest-ever in a League Cup final, stunned a Blues side whose previously rock-solid confidence had been shaken by consecutive losses to Newcastle and Barcelona in the previous week. The Blues' attacking chances were limited, and Jerzy Dudek was equal to Frank Lampard's powerfully-struck drive and Drogba's low shot. Despite their frustration, Chelsea began to dominate midfield without seriously threatening to break Liverpool's well-organised defence. Joe Cole had a shot blocked and a promising Damien Duff break was halted by a good tackle from Djimi Traore, but the Reds reached half-time without any major scares. The Blues began the second half with more urgency and pegged Liverpool back. Nevertheless, Liverpool were living dangerously and they needed a fantastic double save from Dudek on 54 minutes, first at full stretch from Gudjohnsen's header, then to smother William Gallas' follow-up. And despite Chelsea's possession, it was Liverpool who fashioned the next clear opportunity as Luis Garcia fed Dietmar Hamann whose shot forced a superb save from Cech. And the Blues' increasingly adventurous approach saw Liverpool earn another chance on the break on 75 minutes as Paulo Ferreira denied Gerrard with a last-ditch tackle. But Gerrard was on the scoresheet minutes later - in the most unfortunate fashion - as he inadvertently deflected Ferrerira's free-kick past his own keeper and in off the post to bring Chelsea level. That prompted Mourinho's reaction which saw him sent off, but Chelsea still pressed and Duff had a chance to win the game with seven minutes remaining. Dudek saved bravely at the Irishman's feet, while Milan Baros shot wildly at the other end to ensure extra time. Drogba almost headed Chelsea in front two minutes into extra-time but the striker saw the ball rebound off the post. But seconds after the half-time interval, Drogba made no mistake, picking the ball up from Glen Johnson's long throw inside the six-yard box and sidefooting home. And Kezman appeared to have made the game safe as he netted from close range after Gudjohnsen's cross in the 110th minute. There was still drama as Nunez beat Cech to a high ball with six minutes remaining to head his side level, but despite Liverpool's desperate attacks, Chelsea clung on to win. Dudek, Finnan, Carragher, Hyypia, Traore (Biscan 67), Luis Garcia, Gerrard, Hamann, Riise, Kewell (Nunez 56), Morientes (Baros 74). Subs Not Used: Pellegrino, Carson. Hyypia, Traore, Hamann, Carragher. Riise 1, Nunez 113. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Ricardo Carvalho, Terry, Gallas (Kezman 74), Jarosik (Gudjohnsen 45), Lampard, Makelele, Cole (Johnson 81), Drogba, Duff. Subs Not Used: Pidgeley, Tiago. Lampard, Kezman, Drogba, Duff. Gerrard 79 og, Drogba 107, Kezman 112. 78,000 S Bennett (Kent).
Newcastle 2-1 Bolton Kieron Dyer smashed home the winner to end Bolton's 10-game unbeaten run. Lee Bowyer put Newcastle ahead when he fed Stephen Carr on the right flank, then sprinted into the area to power home a header from the resultant cross. Wanderers hit back through Stelios Giannakopoulos, who ended a fluid passing move with a well-struck volley. But Dyer had the last word in a game of few chances, pouncing on a loose ball after Alan Shearer's shot was blocked and firing into the top corner. Neither side lacked urgency in the early stages of the game, with plenty of tackles flying in, but opportunities in front of goal were harder to come by. Bolton keeper Jussi Jaaskelainen had to make two saves in quick succession midway through the first-half - keeping out Shearer's low shot and Dyer's close-range header - but that was the only goalmouth action of note. And it was almost out of nothing that the Magpies took the lead on 35 minutes. Bowyer found space with a neat turn on the half-way line and striding forward picked out Carr to his right. He then continued his run and with perfect timing made his way into the box where he met Carr's cross with a downward header into the far corner. Bolton had produced little going forward at this point but they responded well. They were level within six minutes thanks to a smart finish from Giannakopoulos. Jay-Jay Okocha twisted and turned on the edge of the area and after a neat exchange of passes involving Kevin Davies and Gary Speed, the Greek striker found the bottom corner with a first-time strike. The Magpies were opened up again before half-time as Davies set Giannakopoulos in space and Given had to block at his near post. But the home side survived, and they should have re-taken the lead with the first meaningful attack of the second half. Fernando Hierro cynically chopped down Dyer on the edge of the area with the midfielder clean through. But the veteran defender escaped with a booking as there were other defenders nearby, and from the resultant free-kick Laurent Robert curled the ball just wide. Bolton were creating little going forward and they seemed content to frustrate the Magpies. Their strategy seemed to be working until the 69th minute. Alan Shearer's snap-shot was charged down and Dyer reacted first to smash the ball past the despairing Jaaskelainen from six yards. - Bolton boss Sam Allardyce "I am bitterly disappointed with the result, but I am probably more disappointed with the second-half performance. "In the first half we had put them under a lot of pressure, and our goal matched theirs in quality. "I thought it would lift us and that they might be tired after playing a lot of games, but unfortunately we were not up for the battle in the second half. "We allowed them to heap too much pressure on us, and in the end we cracked." - Newcastle boss Graeme Souness "We deserved the win. We had a really good second half. "Bolton are a difficult side to play. You have to match them physically first but we did that, and then we played some football. "We had a slow first 45 minutes when we looked a bit tired but we got going after that. The scoreline flattered them and we could have had one or two more goals." Newcastle: Given, Carr, Boumsong, Bramble, Babayaro, Dyer, Faye, Bowyer, Robert (Jenas 77), Ameobi, Shearer. Subs Not Used: Butt, Harper, Milner, Hughes. Goals: Bowyer 35, Dyer 69. Bolton: Jaaskelainen, Hunt (Fadiga 14), N'Gotty, Ben Haim, Candela, Giannakopoulos, Okocha (Vaz Te 77), Hierro (Campo 64), Speed, Gardner, Davies. Subs Not Used: Jaidi, Poole. Booked: Ben Haim, Hierro. Goals: Giannakopoulos 41. Att: 50,430 Ref: S Dunn (Gloucestershire).
Middlesbrough 2-2 Charlton A late header by teenager Danny Graham earned Middlesbrough a battling draw with Charlton at the Riverside. Matt Holland had put the visitors ahead in the 14th minute after his shot took a deflection off Franck Queudrue. But Middlesbrough peppered the Charlton goal after the break and Chris Riggott stroked home the equaliser. Shaun Bartlett's strike put Charlton back in front but that lead lasted just six minutes before Graham rushed onto Queudrue's pass to head home. The match burst to life from the whistle and Charlton defender Hermann Hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minutes. Hreidarsson received Danny Murphy's free-kick from the right but he crashed his free header wide of the far post. The Iceland international looked such a danger the Boro bench could be heard issuing frantic instructions to mark him. Charlton's early pressure paid off when Bartlett received a long ball from Talal El Karkouri in the box and laid it off to Holland who buried his right-footed strike. Szilard Nemeth, recalled in place of Joseph-Desire Job, was twice denied his chance to get Middlesbrough back on level terms by Dean Kiely. The striker played a great one-two with Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink only to see Kiely get down well to smother his shot before directing a header straight into the keeper's arms. Boro had plenty of time on the ball but the Addicks comfortably mopped up the pressure - with Kiely tipping a Hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their lead into half-time. It was all one-way traffic after the break at the Riverside as Middlesbrough poured forward and Kiely even saved Hreidarsson's blushes when he palmed the ball away to prevent a Charlton own goal. But the Addicks keeper could do nothing about Riggott's equaliser in the 74th minute. The Boro defender looked suspiciously offside as he got on the end of Gareth Southgate's misdirected effort, but despite the Charlton protests his goal stood. The Addicks did not let their heads drop and Bartlett left the Boro defence standing, picking up Hreidarsson's cross to easily sink his right-footed strike. But substitute Graham was on hand to grab a share of the points for the home side. The 19-year-old striker nodding home the equaliser - and his first Premiership goal - with five minutes left on the clock. "I felt we did enough to win the game even though the first half was lacklustre. "We dominated after the break, the players showed a fantastic response and we should have gone on to win. "But for (Charlton goalkeeper) Dean Kiely, who made three tremendous saves, we could have scored five or six." "To take the lead and then to get penned back, it feels a little bit like a defeat," admitted Kiely. "We were winning but Middlesbrough kept knocking on the door. But we stood up and credit to us we didn't capitulate. "We'll kick on now. Our short-term ambition is to progress from the seventh place finish from last year." Nash, Reiziger (Graham 82), Riggott, Southgate, Queudrue, Parlour (Job 86), Doriva, Nemeth (Parnaby 87), Zenden, Downing, Hasselbaink. Subs Not Used: Cooper, Knight. Riggott 74, Graham 86. Kiely, Hreidarsson, Perry, El Karkouri, Young, Konchesky, Murphy (Euell 78), Holland, Kishishev, Thomas (Johansson 72), Bartlett. Subs Not Used: Fish, Jeffers, Andersen. Konchesky, Hreidarsson, Perry. Holland 14, Bartlett 80. 29,603 M Riley (W Yorkshire).
Dundee Utd 4-1 Aberdeen Dundee United eased into the semi-final of the Scottish Cup with an emphatic win over Aberdeen. Alan Archibald prodded United ahead in 19 minutes and James Grady made it two from close range 10 minutes later. Richie Byrne's header gave Aberdeen a way back into the game, but Stevie Crawford restored United's lead from 18 yards before half time. The scoring was completed by Grady just after the break - a superb shot on the turn making it 4-1. Tony Bullock in the United goal was called into action for the first time with just over a quarter-of-an-hour on the clock. Noel Whelan laid the ball off to Jamie Winter on the edge of the box, but his first-time effort was gathered by the United keeper. Moments later though, the home side took the lead. Barry Robson whipped in a free kick from the right, which Stevie Crawford caught on the volley. Russell Anderson failed to deal with it and Whelan's clearance off the line landed kindly at the feet of Archibald, who poked the ball into the net. United doubled their lead after 29 minutes when Grady tapped the ball into an empty net after Robson had headed Mark Wilson's cross off the angle of post and bar. But only three minutes later Aberdeen clawed their way back into the match. A free kick from the left by Winter was met powerfully by the head of Byrne at the back post, leaving Bullock helpless. United restored their two-goal lead four minutes before the end of a highly entertaining first half. Jason Scotland played a perfectly-weighted pass into the path of the onrushing Crawford and he coolly beat Ryan Esson from 18 yards. United ended the game as a contest just two minutes after the interval. Grady received a pass from Crawford with his back to goal on the edge of the box and after taking one touch, he spun to volley the ball past the despairing dive of Esson. The home side were in complete control and it required a good stop from Esson to keep out Robson's drive after 62 minutes. The keeper denied the same player again 10 minutes later, beating away his fierce shot from the left of the penalty area. Robson saw another long-range effort tipped round the post before a cute lob was headed off the line. Bullock, Duff, Wilson, Ritchie, Archibald, Scotland (Samuel 63), Brebner, Kerr (Cameron 87), Robson, Crawford, Grady. Colgan, Dodds, Kenneth. Brebner. Archibald 19, Grady 29, Crawford 41, Grady 47. Esson, Hart, Anderson, Diamond, Byrne (Morrison 75), McNaughton, Heikkinen (Foster 27), Winter, Clark (Stewart 51), Mackie, Whelan. Blanchard, McGuire. : Anderson, Diamond. Byrne 33. 8,661 K Clark
Clyde 0-5 Celtic Celtic brushed aside Clyde to secure their place in the Scottish Cup semi-final, but only after a nervy and testing first half. The home side's Craig Bryson had a goal chopped off before Stan Varga headed Celtic into the lead. Alan Thompson scored from the penalty spot at the start of the second half after Shaun Maloney had been fouled. Stilian Petrov slid in a third, Varga tapped in his second and Craig Bellamy completed the rout with a fine drive. Bryn Halliwell was the busier keeper early on, saving from Bellamy, Chris Sutton and Juninho. Clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremendous strike from Bryson, but the referee had already blown for a foul by Petrov. From the resulting free kick, Darren Sheridan curled the ball round the Celtic wall only for the post to deny him. Back at the other end, Halliwell did well to come off his line and block Bellamy's effort to lift the ball over him. The keeper misjudged a corner that Stephane Henchoz headed wide, but a similar scenario five minutes before the break led to the opening goal. The ball was delivered from the left and Halliwell was left floundering as Varga glanced the ball into the net. Maloney replaced the injured Sutton at half time and he marked his first competitive appearance after a year out injured by helping his side take a two-goal lead just after the break. The young striker fired a free kick straight into the Clyde wall but as he collected the rebound, he was tripped by Bryson and Thompson converted the penalty. Sheridan and Bellamy were involved in something of a flare-up that led to both being booked after the intervention of the assistant referee. Juninho brought out another good save from Halliwell and then Petrov saw a tremendous effort come off the top of the bar. But Petrov and Juninho combined brilliantly to allow the Bulgarian to make it 3-0 on the hour mark - a quick one-two giving him the time and space to steer the ball past Halliwell from 12 yards. Varga got his second goal of the game as Celtic drove home their advantage - Thompson whipped in a corner from the right and the unmarked defender simply tapped the ball over the line from a couple of yards out. Celtic were utterly dominant by this stage and Bellamy opened his scoring account for the club after a fine move involving Aiden McGeady, Jackie McNamara and Maloney culminated in the Welshman hammering the ball into the net. Halliwell kept the deficit at five by pushing a McGeady shot wide as the game petered out. Halliwell, Mensing, Bollan, Balmer, Potter, Sheridan (Burns 61), Arbuckle (Gilhaney 61), Gibson, Bryson (Jones 78), Malone, Harty. Morrison, Wilson. Mensing, Sheridan. Douglas, Henchoz, McNamara, Balde, Varga, Juninho Paulista, Thompson, Lennon (Lambert 70), Sutton (Maloney 45), Petrov (McGeady 70), Bellamy. Marshall, Laursen. Thompson, Bellamy. : Varga 40, Thompson 48 pen, Petrov 60, Varga 68, Bellamy 72. 8,200 C Thomson
Hearts 2-1 Livingston Hearts wrapped up their Scottish Cup quarter-final tie against Livingston with two goals in the first 10 minutes. Lee Miller scored inside the opening 60 seconds, heading over Colin Meldrum and into the net from a Jamie McAllister free kick. McAllister himself scored the second when he met Saul Mikoliunas' cross at the back post to put the game beyond the visitors. Craig Easton headed in a controversial goal after an hour but Hearts held on. The opening goal came after Gus Bahoken had clumsily fouled Miller 35 yards from goal. McAllister floated the free kick into the Livi box and Miller outjumped the static visiting defence to loop his header from 10 yards over Meldrum. With just 10 minutes on the clock, the home side doubled their lead. Mikoliunas sprinted down the right, crossed to the back post where McAllister raced in to head past Meldrum. Moments later Miller came close to grabbing his second with a first-time drive from 16 yards, which skimmed the bar. Then McAllister picked up a pass from Stephen Simmons and drove an angled shot from 20 yards narrowly past Meldrum's far post. The impressive Mikoliunas twice went close before half time - a low drive was comfortably gathered by Meldrum and then he curled a left-footed shot past the keeper's right-hand post. Livi manager Richard Gough made three changes at the interval, bringing on defender Goran Stanic, midfielder Gabor Vincze, and striker Ferenc Horvath for Bahoken, Derek Lilley and Mark Wilson. But, in the opening stages of the second period, little changed. However, the West Lothian side gave themselves a lifeline with a controversial goal. Eric Deloumeaux sent Jason Dair away on the right and he tried to give the ball to McPake, who looked to be in an offside position. The Livi striker ignored the pass, however, and Dair ran on to it and played Easton in at the back post and he headed home from close range. The home side called for offside against McPake but referee Alan Freeland ignored their claims and pointed to the centre-circle. Livi went all out for the equaliser. In the 87th minute, Burton O'Brien was hauled back at the edge of the box by Neil MacFarlane, but Dair sent his shot just inches wide. Gordon, Webster, Miller, Hartley, Neilson, McAllister, Simmons (MacFarlane 64), Berra, Burchill (Wyness 82), Mikoliunas (Cesnauskis 77), Wallace. Moilanen, Kizys. Berra, Webster. Miller 1, McAllister 10. Meldrum, McNamee, Bahoken (Stanic 45), Deloumeaux, Strong, Dair, Easton, Mark Wilson (Vincze 45), Lilley (Horvath 45), O'Brien, McPake. McKenzie, Hand. : Vincze, Horvath. Easton 60. 9,796 A Freeland
Kenyon denies Robben Barca return Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon has played down reports that Arjen Robben will return for the Champions League match against Barcelona. "He's been responding well to treatment and started running on Friday, but we'll have to wait and see," he told BBC Five Live's Sportsweek. "We're looking to getting him back as soon as possible, but he'll be back when it's right for him and for us. "There's no plans at the moment around the Barcelona game." His comments contradict those of chiropractor Jean Pierre Meersseman who treated the Dutchman after he fractured his foot at the start of February. Robben had been expected to be out for six weeks, but Meersseman hinted that the winger could be fit for the vital Stamford Bridge game on 8 March. "I hope he can be back and I will try to help him make that happen," Meersseman told the Mail on Sunday. "I put everything right with Arjen's foot the last time I saw him 12 days ago. It was an obvious correction and easy to perform. "I know he was pleased with what I did and now that he is running again. I am due to see him one more time again in the next few days." Meersseman is the medical co-ordinator at Italian side AC Milan.
Bridge could miss rest of season Chelsea left-back Wayne Bridge could miss the rest of the season with a suspected broken ankle. The England international, 24, was hurt in an innocuous challenge with Alan Shearer during the Londoners' FA Cup defeat at Newcastle on Sunday. "We think it's a big injury," said Jose Mourinho, whose Chelsea team this week meet Barcelona in the Champions League and Liverpool in the Carling Cup final. William Gallas and Damien Duff could also miss the Barcelona game. France defender Gallas and Ireland winger Duff both picked up their injuries in the closing stages of Chelsea's 1-0 defeat at St James' Park. With Bridge having gone off after Mourinho used all three substitutes, those knocks plus Carlo Cudicini's red card meant Chelsea finished the game with seven able-bodied players. Cudicini would not have played against Barcelona, but had been promised a game in the Carling Cup final, although he will now miss the Cardiff showpiece through suspension. The manager is not planning to add any new names to his squad ahead of the trip to Barcelona, even though he has few options to replace Bridge at left-back. Celestine Babayaro left the club in January, ironically to join Newcastle, and although Gallas has deputised at left-back before, he is struggling to be fit himself. It could be that Paulo Ferreira, usually a right-back, is switched to left-back with Glen Johnson, who ended the Newcastle game in goal, playing on the right. Youngsters Ben Hudell, Joe Keenan and Sam Tillen would be options should Mourinho decide to call up a replacement, but it is unlikely he would risk an untried prospect in a Champions League tie. Bridge's injury also means Mourinho, who reportedly wants to sign Ashley Cole from Arsenal, will not have a specialist, senior left-back for the run-in to the season. "He (Bridge) has no chance of playing against Barcelona, probably will not play against Liverpool (in the Carling Cup final) and maybe not for the rest of the season," he said. "The medical department will try to do everything to recover Gallas and Duff. We will have to wait and see, but I won't cry about injuries because we will have 11 players to play on Tuesday." Shearer said he was unsure what caused Bridge's injury. "I don't know what happened." he said. "It was just a shame. I don't think we even touched each other. "By all accounts it's pretty serious. I went into the dressing-room after the game and wished him all the best." Mourinho, whose team are chasing three trophies, has already lost winger Arjen Robben to a serious injury.
Parry firm over Gerrard Listen to the full interview on Sport on Five and the BBC Sport website from 1900 GMT. But Parry, speaking exclusively to BBC Sport, also admits Gerrard, who has been constantly linked with Chelsea, will have the final say on his future. He told BBC Five Live: "Steven is above money. He is the future of Liverpool. "It doesn't matter if it's £30m, £40m or £50m, we will not accept offers. But we are also realistic enough to know we can't keep Steven against his will." On the subject of Liverpool's finances, Parry also revealed the club is ready to explore the possibility of a sponsorship deal for its proposed new stadium. And responding to criticism from BBC Sport pundit and former Liverpool stalwart Alan Hansen, he insisted talks on new investment are ongoing, but added the door has not closed on shareholder and lifelong fan Steve Morgan. Parry joined Liverpool as chief executive in July 1998 from a similar role at the Premier League. There have been several highs and lows during his time in charge at Anfield - and he had a busy summer, overseeing the arrival of new manager Rafael Benitez and managing to hold on to Steven Gerrard. On the subject of Liverpool's captain and prize asset, Parry revealed Real Madrid did ask for an option on the England midfield man during negotiations for striker Fernando Morientes. He said: "They were looking for ways of saying they got more out of the deal for Fernando Morientes, but the response to Real Madrid was the same - Steven is not for sale." But when asked if Gerrard would be a Liverpool player on the first day of next season, Parry said: "I sincerely hope he will be. Steven knows my views. He knows Rafa's views. "We have re-affirmed recently to Steven that we are trying to build a team around him. We crave success as much as he does. We know he's ambitious and nobody can argue with that. "I think Steven would dearly love to win things with Liverpool more than he'd like to do anything else. "We all want to see progress by next season. He's not alone in that. There are a lot of other players who feel the same, so we all have a common aim." It is expected Chelsea will test Liverpool with a £30m-plus bid in the summer - but Parry claims he will be in no mood to listen. "There have been a lot of open secrets about Steven, most of which have been complete myths. It is suggested we had a deal tied up last summer. We didn't had an offer last summer," Parry explained. "We had told Chelsea that as far as we were concerned he was not for sale and we didn't want to sell him. In reality it didn't go beyond that. "Maybe there will be an offer in the summer. Maybe there won't. "Our position is we want Steven to stay, but we are also realistic enough and have enough respect for Steven - and he has enough respect for us - to know that it is his decision that will be crucial. "You are not going to keep a player like Steven against his will. That just doesn't work, but any idea we are going to accept offers for Steven and then tell him 'by the way we've decided to sell you' is not on the agenda. You can forget that." Parry is currently in the process of finalising funding for Liverpool's new stadium in Stanley Park, which is set to open in 2007. And he confessed Arsenal's £100m deal with Emirates to sponsor their new ground - complete with naming rights - has given the Anfield club serious food for thought. He said: "I have to say historically it is something I have been against, and I have been on record as saying that, but I think the size of the Arsenal deal is a real eye-opener. "I would say in the past deals have been done frankly far too cheaply and it just hasn't even been worth contemplating. "But the Arsenal deal is the sort of deal that causes you to draw breath and say 'wow - that's interesting.' "My personal point of view is that I would find it a hell of a lot more palatable than a shared stadium." Some Liverpool fans would find such a move highly controversial, but Parry countered: "I recognise it would be an emotive issue for many supporters, but you look at the amount of money available and it could go into the team. "If it was the right partner how strong an issue is it? Time will tell. "I think the stadium will always be Anfield, not least because of where it is, but do we need to investigate the possibilities of sponsorship? I think it would be remiss not to. "That's not to say we have made a decision that we will go down that road, but I think it is clearly something we have to explore." On the subject of possible new investment, Parry revealed Liverpool are still in negotiations with a mystery investor, with rumours of interest from the Middle East. That prompted the withdrawal of tycoon Steve Morgan, who got frustrated by failed bids and what he claimed was indecision by the board. He also accused Liverpool of using him as "a stalking horse" to attract other bids, but Parry explained: "Steve has never been used as a stalking horse. There's no need, and that is not the way we do business. "We had discussions with Steve over the course of 2004. I think we came close to concluding a deal in the summer but it didn't happen. "Quite genuinely, the new interest did appear relatively late in the day just prior to the AGM in December, and as I have said it was of such potential magnitude, and that potential is so exciting, we felt we had to evaluate it. We are still evaluating it. "Steve's interest was taken very much on its own merits. His enthusiasm for the club is there for all to see and who knows what the next few months will hold? "The door isn't closed on anything. We had a perfectly sensible dialogue with Steve last year. "We have a common interest in making Liverpool successful. That's a dream we all share, so as far as I'm concerned the door is not closed." I would take £50m if we had no investment, but if we did, keep him. As for the stadium, if it gets us cash what difference does it make really? £50m for Gerrard? I don't care who you are, the Directors would take the money and it is the way it should be. We cannot let that sum of money go, despite Gerrard's quality. Through a cleverly worded statement, the club has effectively forced Gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself, which I think is the right thing to do. Critical time for Liverpool with regards to Gerrard. Ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term. I am hoping he doesn't walk out of the club like Michael Owen did for very little cash. £50m realistically would allow Rafa to completely rebuild the squad, however, if we can afford to do this AND keep Gerrard we will be better for it. I would however be happy with Gerrard's transfer for any fee over £35m. Parry's statements are clever in that any future Gerrard transfer cannot be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players. Upping the ante is another smart move by Parry. I would keep Gerrard. No amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed. The key is if Gerrard comes out and says that he is happy. Clearly, if he isn't, then we would be foolish not to sell. The worrying thing is who would you buy (or who would come) pending possible non-Champions League football.
Wright-Phillips to start on right England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson has revealed Shaun Wright-Phillips will start against the Netherlands. But Wright-Phillips will not make his first start for England playing on the left, as had been widely expected. "Shaun Wright-Phillips will probably start the game," said Eriksson. "But I'm not going to start Wright-Phillips on the left." Eriksson also revealed that Wes Brown will start alongside Jamie Carragher in the injury-hit centre of defence. When asked if Brown and Carragher would start Eriksson replied: "I could tell you yes. "It's a blow that four or five central defenders are away because of injuries. "On the other hand it's good for Carragher and Brown to show what they can do at this level. That's positive." The England coach said that he had been impressed by Wright-Phillips' form for Manchester City. "He deserves his chance. He has been playing well all season and I look forward to seeing him." And he added that Andy Johnson and Stewart Downing - the other two new players in the squad - would also get a chance to impress. "Wright-Phillips, Downing and Johnson will start or get the chance to play some part. "Johnson was not in my plans a year ago but he is doing a great season and scoring a lot of goals. "Downing is another one making a great season. He is young, talented and there are not too many left-footed players in the squad."
Robben sidelined with broken foot Chelsea winger Arjen Robben has broken two metatarsal bones in his foot and will be out for at least six weeks. Robben had an MRI scan on the injury, sustained during the Premiership win at Blackburn, on Monday. "Six weeks is the average time to heal this injury and then I need a few more weeks to be completely fit again," he told Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad. "I had a feeling it was serious but because of the swelling it was impossible to make a final diagnosis." The 21-year-old missed the first three months of the season with a similar injury after a challenge with Roma's Olivier Dacourt. And he added: "It felt different then last summer when I had the same injury on my other foot. "Then I could walk already after three days but I stayed sidelined for a long period. I hope that it will now take me six to eight weeks." Chelsea physio Mike Banks was hopeful that Robben could return at some point in March. "The fractures are tiny and he could be playing next month," Banks told the club's website. "One is a chip on the side of his foot, the other is a small break on the third metatarsal. "But this is not the traditional metatarsal that has become so famous since the last World Cup and which has kept Scott Parker out for two months." David Beckham suffered a broken metatarsal in the build up to the 2002 World Cup in Korea and Japan. Robben, who has been a key part of the Blues' push for four trophies, claims he knew instantly something was wrong when he was felled by Blackburn midfielder Aaron Mokoena. "I felt my leg go," he said. "I felt it straight away after Mokoena hit me with a wild kick on my left foot."
Giggs handed Wales leading role Ryan Giggs will captain Wales as he wins his 50th cap in Wednesday's friendly against Hungary in Cardiff. John Toshack, in his first game as coach after succeeding Mark Hughes, admits he is surprised that Giggs has only just reached the landmark. "With the games he's played for United, proportionately it doesn't seem that many for Wales," Toshack said. "But he's one of the greatest of all Welsh internationals and on his 50th cap it's appropriate he's captain." Giggs admits he had briefly considered retirement from the international game, but is now targetting playing for Wales in the 2008 European Championships. The Manchester United wing revealed how club manager Sir Alex Ferguson talked him into extending his Wales career. "I briefly discussed my international future with Sir Alex, but he urged me to carry on," Giggs said. "He feels, like myself, that I have no weight problems and keep myself fit, so in three or four years' time I will be able to play in the European finals if we get there. "The manager has always wanted me to play for my club and country and he was keen for me to continue because I am fit enough." Giggs admits he was wavering and considering joining the likes of former Wales skipper Gary Speed and United team-mate Paul Scholes in committing the remaining years of his career to club football. But Giggs is now focussed on making the Toshack era even more successful than the time Hughes spent at the helm. The Manchester United winger won his first cap as a 17-year-old in 1991, an away loss to Germany, and now faces his landmark appearance at the age of 31. With Giggs leading Wales out against Hungary, there is every chance that he will become the permanent successor to Speed. However, Toshack refused to reveal whether he sees Giggs as a long-term option. "For this particular game I think it is appropriate that Ryan Giggs will be captain, it's his 50th cap and he's known for some time about that," Toshack said. On Wednesday night Toshack takes charge of his first match since replacing Hughes, and Giggs said: "It's my 50th cap and I am looking forward to it, and I hope to play a lot more times from here on in. "It's important to be here, all the players feel the same. It's a new start and all the top players certainly see it as important. "I see myself leading by example, it is something I have taken on for Wales as well as United these past few seasons. "The way John is looking at things, he is aiming to build his side around the experienced lads right up to the next tournament, the Euro 2006 event. "I have told John I will be around for the next European tournament, by then I will be 35 so hopefully I will still be okay. "A lot can happen, but I'm hoping to be around." Giggs' own personal future at Old Trafford is still up in the air as he has yet to reach agreement on a new contract, with Manchester United offering one extra year and Giggs seeking two. "I have put the contract thing to the back of my mind at the moment," said Giggs. "It is an important period for the club and I am just concentrated on that. "I've heard the suggestions, hopefully there is a two-year deal about to be offered because that is what I am looking for, to get it sorted out. "I'm enjoying my football, the way United have been playing and my own form, you have to enjoy it. "We have massive games coming up: Manchester City this week, then the Everton cup tie, followed by AC Milan in the Champions League, and my first Wales game under John Toshack, so it's an important time."
Bosvelt optimistic over new deal Manchester City's Paul Bosvelt will find out "within a month" whether he is to be offered a new one-year deal. The 34-year-old Dutch midfielder is out of contract in the summer and, although his age may count against him, he feels he can play on for another season. "I told the club I would like to stay for one more year. They promised me an answer within the next month so I am waiting to see," he said. "The main concern is my age but I think I have proved I am fit enough. Bosvelt joined City from Feyenoord in 2003 and at first he struggled to adapt to life in England. But his professionalism and dedication impressed manager Kevin Keegan. "He realised the pace of the game was faster than anything he was used to but he drove himself back into the team. He is an unsung hero," said Keegan.
Sociedad set to rescue Mladenovic Rangers are set to loan out-of-favour midfielder Dragan Mladenovic to Real Sociedad, despite the closure of the January transfer window. Sociedad have been given special permission by the Spanish FA to sign a player due to an injury crisis. Mladenovic will effectively replace former Rangers midfielder Mikel Arteta, who has been loaned to Everton. Sociedad say they will pay Rangers £150,000, with an option to buy the Serbia & Montenegro international. Mladenovic's loan move is subject to him passing a medical. The 28-year-old, who joined Rangers from Red Star Belgrade for £1.2m in the close season, is expected in San Sebastian later this week following his national side's game against Bulgaria. Sociedad are in 15th place in the 20-strong Primera Liga, just two points above the relegation zone. Special permission from the Spanish FA came after an injury to central defender Igor Jauregi. The versatile Mladenovic can also play in the back four. His agent said last month that Rangers had told him to find the player a new club. Mladenovic's time at Ibrox has been plagued with injury and he has made just six starts in six months with the Glasgow club.
Parry relishes Anfield challenge BBC Sport reflects on the future for Liverpool after our exclusive interview with chief executive Rick Parry. Chief executive Parry is the man at the helm as Liverpool reach the most crucial point in their recent history. Parry has to deliver a new 60,000-seat stadium in Stanley Park by 2007 amid claims of costs spiralling above £120m. He is also searching for an investment package of a size and stature that will restore Liverpool to their place at European football's top table. But it is a challenge that appears to sit easily with Parry, who has forged a reputation as one of football's most respected administrators since his days at the fledgling Premier League. Liverpool have not won the championship since 1990, a fact that causes deep discomfort inside Anfield as they attempt to muscle in on the top three of Chelsea, Manchester United and Arsenal. Throw in the small matter of warding off every top club in world football as they eye captain Steven Gerrard, and you can see Parry is a man with a lot on his plate. But in the comfort of a conference room deep inside Liverpool's heartbeat - The Kop end - Parry spoke to us with brutal honesty about the crucial months ahead. He only dodged one question - when asked to reveal the name of the mystery investor currently courting Liverpool, a polite smile deflected the inquiry. But to his credit, he met everything else head on in measured tones that underscore the belief that Liverpool still mean business. By business he means becoming title challengers again, and locking the pieces together that will help return the trophy to Liverpool is Parry's mission. Parry has already successfully put one of those planks in place in the form of new manager Rafael Benitez. And his enthusiasm for the Spaniard's personality and methods is an indication of his clear feeling that he has struck gold. Benitez's early work has given Parry renewed optimism about the years ahead. But it remains a massive task at a club with a unique history and expectations. This will not come as news to Parry, a lifelong Liverpool supporter, but his quiet determination suggests he is no mood to be found wanting... Captain Gerrard is central to Liverpool's plans and Parry's insistence that all offers will be refused is a firm statement of intent. As ever, the player will have the final say, and Parry acknowledges that, but he is determined to provide the framework and environment for Liverpool and Gerrard to flourish. In terms of the search for new investment, Hawkpoint were appointed as advisors to flush out interest in March 2004. Thailand Prime Minister Thaksin Shiniwatra came and went, while the most serious statement of intent came from tycoon and lifelong fan Steve Morgan. Morgan had a succession of bids rejected, having come close in the summer only for talks to break down over potential costs for the new stadium. BBC Sport understands Morgan is still ready and willing to invest in Liverpool, and Parry has kept the door ajar despite currently seeking investment elsewhere. Morgan, however, has had no formal contact with Liverpool or their advisors since last December, blaming indecision at board level as he publicly withdrew his £70m offer. He was also convinced his interest was being used to lure in others, so any new approach would now have to come from Liverpool. Morgan will certainly not be making another call. So speculation continues about the new benefactor, with trails leading to the Middle East and America, but all met with an understandable veil of secrecy from Anfield. Parry meanwhile sees the new ground as crucial to Liverpool's future, but is refusing to become emotionally attached to the idea. He is determined the ground will only be built on an affordable basis and will not make future Liverpool management hostages to the new stadium. Parry will pull back the moment the figures do not stack up, but there has been a vital new development in North London that has re-shaped Liverpool's thinking. Liverpool have publicly refused to entertain the idea of stadium sponsorship and potential naming rights - but the realism of Arsenal's stunning £100m deal for their new Emirates Stadium at Ashburton has changed the landscape. Parry labelled the deal "an eye-opener" and admits Liverpool would be missing a trick not to explore the possibilities. He knows some traditionalist Liverpool fans will reel at any attempt to call the new stadium anything other than just 'Anfield', but the maths of modern-day football decree that multi-millions for stadium and team could ease the pain. I would take £50m if we had no investment, but if we did, keep him. As for the stadium, if it gets us cash what difference does it make really? £50m for Gerrard? I don't care who you are, the Directors would take the money and it is the way it should be. We cannot let that sum of money go, despite Gerrard's quality. Through a cleverly worded statement, the club has effectively forced Gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself, which I think is the right thing to do. Critical time for Liverpool with regards to Gerrard. Ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term. I am hoping he doesn't walk out of the club like Michael Owen did for very little cash. £50m realistically would allow Rafa to completely rebuild the squad, however, if we can afford to do this AND keep Gerrard we will be better for it. I would however be happy with Gerrard's transfer for any fee over £35m. Parry's statements are clever in that any future Gerrard transfer cannot be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players. Upping the ante is another smart move by Parry. I would keep Gerrard. No amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed. The key is if Gerrard comes out and says that he is happy. Clearly, if he isn't, then we would be foolish not to sell. The worrying thing is who would you buy (or who would come) pending possible non-Champions League football.
Time to get tough on friendlies? For an international manager, a friendly provides an important opportunity to work with your players. The only problem is that the game itself can often be a farce. Some people have been saying it would be better to get the players together for the week, and do away with the 90 minutes at the end. I would say it's 50-50 whether you should have these games or not, and if you look at it that way you would probably say you're better not doing so. It would certainly keep club managers happy, as it would reduce the risk of players returning to domestic duty injured. But international bosses will tell you that scrapping friendlies is counterproductive because the only way for a team to get better is by playing. The more you play together, the easier it is when it comes to the crunch in games like World Cup quarter-finals against Brazil. Often in friendlies, though, a manager will play his strongest side for the first 45 minutes and then send out an entirely different one in the second half. And it's very difficult for any player to come on as substitute in a side with a few changes, let alone a whole team's worth. The debate will rage on, and I'm not sure there is a satisfactory solution. One manager who has got it right this week is Walter Smith. The new Scotland manager has decided to have a training camp instead of a friendly for his first international week since replacing Berti Vogts. It is the sort of move you would expect from Walter, who is a canny manager. The players have had such a hard time recently that he is better off getting them together in a relaxed atmosphere and trying to generate some team spirit before the next World Cup qualifiers. If he had sent them out on Wednesday and they had been badly beaten, it would have done them no good whatsoever. John Toshack has his first game in charge of Wales, and it will be important for him to get a decent result against Hungary. He will have his own ideas on individuals and how to play and will probably look more at the performance, but the public wants results. It's extremely difficult to get the balance for friendlies. If you win, people forget them, but if you lose it becomes a stat that can be used against you. England's game against Holland is a good example. It looks like a good opportunity to try out players like Middlesbrough winger Stewart Downing or Crystal Palace striker Andy Johnson. But you have got to remember Sven-Goran Eriksson's side were given a lesson by Spain in the last game they played. The injury problems in defence should at least give the likes of Wes Brown and Jamie Carragher a chance to impress. For the club managers, it will simply be a case of waiting at home with fingers crossed.
Barcelona title hopes hit by loss Barcelona's pursuit of the Spanish title took a blow on Sunday as they fell to a 2-0 defeat at home to Atletico Madrid. Fernando Torres gave Athletico an ideal start with a goal in the first minute. Ronaldino wasted a second-half chance to equalise for Barca when he put a penalty wide, but Torres made no such mistake with a last-minute spot-kick. The defeat, coupled with Real Madrid's 4-0 win over Espanyol on Saturday, reduces Barca's lead to four points. Former Everton midfielder Thomas Gravesen scored his first goal for Real in the comfortable victory at the Bernabeu. Zinedine Zidane had opened the scoring before Raul bagged a brace. Gravesen, who replaced Zidane, completed the scoring in the 84th minute with a low shot. David Beckham, watched by Sven-Goran Eriksson, came off in the 67th minute with a shoulder injury but should be fit for England's game against Holland. England team-mate Michael Owen came on for Raul after 76 minutes with the game already won. Real have now won six consecutive Primera Liga games since coach Wanderley Luxemburgo took charge.
Parry puts Gerrard 'above money' Listen to the full interview on Sport on Five and the BBC Sport website from 1900 GMT. But Parry, speaking exclusively to BBC Sport, also admits Gerrard, who has been constantly linked with Chelsea, will have the final say on his future. He told BBC Five Live: "Steven is above money. He is the future of Liverpool. "It doesn't matter if it's £30m, £40m or £50m, we will not accept offers. But we are also realistic enough to know we can't keep Steven against his will." On the subject of Liverpool's finances, Parry also revealed the club is ready to explore the possibility of a sponsorship deal for its proposed new stadium. And responding to criticism from BBC Sport pundit and former Liverpool stalwart Alan Hansen, he insisted talks on new investment are ongoing, but added the door has not closed on shareholder and lifelong fan Steve Morgan. Parry joined Liverpool as chief executive in July 1998 from a similar role at the Premier League. There have been several highs and lows during his time in charge at Anfield - and he had a busy summer, overseeing the arrival of new manager Rafael Benitez and managing to hold on to Steven Gerrard. On the subject of Liverpool's captain and prize asset, Parry revealed Real Madrid did ask for an option on the England midfield man during negotiations for striker Fernando Morientes. He said: "They were looking for ways of saying they got more out of the deal for Fernando Morientes, but the response to Real Madrid was the same - Steven is not for sale." But when asked if Gerrard would be a Liverpool player on the first day of next season, Parry said: "I sincerely hope he will be. Steven knows my views. He knows Rafa's views. "We have re-affirmed recently to Steven that we are trying to build a team around him. We crave success as much as he does. We know he's ambitious and nobody can argue with that. "I think Steven would dearly love to win things with Liverpool more than he'd like to do anything else. "We all want to see progress by next season. He's not alone in that. There are a lot of other players who feel the same, so we all have a common aim." It is expected Chelsea will test Liverpool with a £30m-plus bid in the summer - but Parry claims he will be in no mood to listen. "There have been a lot of open secrets about Steven, most of which have been complete myths. It is suggested we had a deal tied up last summer. We didn't had an offer last summer," Parry explained. "We had told Chelsea that as far as we were concerned he was not for sale and we didn't want to sell him. In reality it didn't go beyond that. "Maybe there will be an offer in the summer. Maybe there won't. "Our position is we want Steven to stay, but we are also realistic enough and have enough respect for Steven - and he has enough respect for us - to know that it is his decision that will be crucial. "You are not going to keep a player like Steven against his will. That just doesn't work, but any idea we are going to accept offers for Steven and then tell him 'by the way we've decided to sell you' is not on the agenda. You can forget that." Parry is currently in the process of finalising funding for Liverpool's new stadium in Stanley Park, which is set to open in 2007. And he confessed Arsenal's £100m deal with Emirates to sponsor their new ground - complete with naming rights - has given the Anfield club serious food for thought. He said: "I have to say historically it is something I have been against, and I have been on record as saying that, but I think the size of the Arsenal deal is a real eye-opener. "I would say in the past deals have been done frankly far too cheaply and it just hasn't even been worth contemplating. "But the Arsenal deal is the sort of deal that causes you to draw breath and say 'wow - that's interesting.' "My personal point of view is that I would find it a hell of a lot more palatable than a shared stadium." Some Liverpool fans would find such a move highly controversial, but Parry countered: "I recognise it would be an emotive issue for many supporters, but you look at the amount of money available and it could go into the team. "If it was the right partner how strong an issue is it? Time will tell. "I think the stadium will always be Anfield, not least because of where it is, but do we need to investigate the possibilities of sponsorship? I think it would be remiss not to. "That's not to say we have made a decision that we will go down that road, but I think it is clearly something we have to explore." On the subject of possible new investment, Parry revealed Liverpool are still in negotiations with a mystery investor, with rumours of interest from the Middle East. That prompted the withdrawal of tycoon Steve Morgan, who got frustrated by failed bids and what he claimed was indecision by the board. He also accused Liverpool of using him as "a stalking horse" to attract other bids, but Parry explained: "Steve has never been used as a stalking horse. There's no need, and that is not the way we do business. "We had discussions with Steve over the course of 2004. I think we came close to concluding a deal in the summer but it didn't happen. "Quite genuinely, the new interest did appear relatively late in the day just prior to the AGM in December, and as I have said it was of such potential magnitude, and that potential is so exciting, we felt we had to evaluate it. We are still evaluating it. "Steve's interest was taken very much on its own merits. His enthusiasm for the club is there for all to see and who knows what the next few months will hold? "The door isn't closed on anything. We had a perfectly sensible dialogue with Steve last year. "We have a common interest in making Liverpool successful. That's a dream we all share, so as far as I'm concerned the door is not closed." I would take £50m if we had no investment, but if we did, keep him. As for the stadium, if it gets us cash what difference does it make really? £50m for Gerrard? I don't care who you are, the Directors would take the money and it is the way it should be. We cannot let that sum of money go, despite Gerrard's quality. Through a cleverly worded statement, the club has effectively forced Gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself, which I think is the right thing to do. Critical time for Liverpool with regards to Gerrard. Ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term. I am hoping he doesn't walk out of the club like Michael Owen did for very little cash. £50m realistically would allow Rafa to completely rebuild the squad, however, if we can afford to do this AND keep Gerrard we will be better for it. I would however be happy with Gerrard's transfer for any fee over £35m. Parry's statements are clever in that any future Gerrard transfer cannot be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players. Upping the ante is another smart move by Parry. I would keep Gerrard. No amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed. The key is if Gerrard comes out and says that he is happy. Clearly, if he isn't, then we would be foolish not to sell. The worrying thing is who would you buy (or who would come) pending possible non-Champions League football.
Bees handed potential Man Utd tie Brentford face a home tie against holders Manchester United in the FA Cup sixth round if they can come through their replay against Southampton. The League One side held the Saints at St Mary's in their fifth-round tie and were rewarded with a potential draw against Sir Alex Ferguson's side. Newcastle will be at home to either Tottenham or Nottingham Forest. Bolton host Arsenal or Sheffield United and Leicester will visit the winners of the Burnley and Blackburn replay. The ties will be played on the weekend of 12-13 March. was delighted to be paired with United, although he admitted they still have plenty of work to do to set up a dream tie. "We've got our work cut out next Tuesday but you can't deny it's exciting," he said. "It would be a sell-out. It will probably be on television. We have financial problems and the revenue it could bring in would certainly help our situation. "We're happy to be in the draw but we've still got to beat a Premiership team. "We've got to beat Southampton first and that's going to be a hard game but if we do there will be some celebration." welcomed the opportunity to face United. "We're not counting on anything yet," he said. "It is obviously going to be a difficult replay judging by the way Brentford came back at us on Saturday and the fact that United have come out of the hat will give them even more incentive. "But I've been drawn against United so many times in cups and beaten them at both Bournemouth and West Ham. "There are no easy ties in the FA Cup and I'm sure nobody is counting on one." Newcastle v Tottenham or Nottingham Forest Southampton or Brentford v Manchester United Bolton v Arsenal or Sheffield United Burnley or Blackburn v Leicester
England's defensive crisis grows England's defensive worries have deepened following the withdrawal of Tottenham's Ledley King from the squad to face Holland. Chelsea's John Terry and Wayne Bridge are also out, leaving coach Sven-Goran Eriksson with a real problem for Wednesday's match at Villa Park. Injured Rio Ferdinand and Sol Campbell were both left out of the squad, and Matthew Upson has already pulled out. Wes Brown and Jamie Carragher are likely to be the makeshift partnership. Terry, the captain of Chelsea as they push for the Premiership title, would have been a certain starter in the absence of Campbell and Ferdinand. But now he has pulled out with a bruised knee and is likely to be replaced by Carragher, alongside Brown. Manchester United's Brown last played for England in the defeat by Australia at Upton Park in February 2003. The 25-year-old was only called into the squad on Sunday night as cover following the enforced withdrawal of Upson, who has a hamstring injury. And Brown now looks certain to add to his tally of seven senior appearances for England. King was forced to pull out after his groin injury was assessed by England's medical staff. Eriksson has still not decided whether to call up any further back-up, having already summoned Phil Neville after Bridge pulled out with a foot injury.
Ferdinand casts doubt over Glazer Rio Ferdinand has said he is unsure of Malcolm Glazer's motives after the American billionaire launched a new offer to buy Manchester United. The club have confirmed that the Glazer Family Partnership have submitted proposals of a third bid. "A lot of people want the club's interest to be with people who have grown up with the club and have got its interests at heart," said Ferdinand. "No one knows what this guy will be bringing to the table." The central defender added on BBC Radio Five Live: "We will have to wait and see what Glazer comes with. "I would like to see the situation resolved either way. "I think people are getting bored with him coming in and out of the news with new proposals. "The other stuff off the pitch takes the shine off what is going on the pitch." Glazer, currently owns a 28.1% stake in the club, and United's statement to the stock exchange said: "The board has noted the recent press speculation on this subject. "The board can confirm that it has now received a detailed proposal subject to various pre-conditions which may form the basis of an offer for Manchester United from Glazer. "A further announcement will be made in due course." Glazer's previous bids for the club, which United supporters opposed, were rejected by the board because of the high level of debt they would incur. But it is believed that Glazer has substantially reduced the borrowing required for his latest move. He will still need the approval of major shareholders John Magnier and JP McManus, who own 28.9% of the club to succeed. But the Irish duo have cut off talks with Glazer over the proposed sale of their stake, while fans remain opposed to his involvement.
Premier League planning Cole date The Premier League is attempting to find a mutually convenient date to investigate allegations Chelsea made an illegal approach for Ashley Cole. Both Chelsea and Arsenal will be asked to give evidence to a Premier League commission, but no deadline has been put on when that meeting will convene. "It's hard to put a date on it," a Premier League spokesman confirmed to BBC Sport. "It's not a formal situation where they've got so much time to respond." Arsenal and England defender Cole reportedly met Blues boss Jose Mourinho and chief executive Peter Kenyon in a London hotel 11 days ago. Chelsea have yet to officially confirm or deny the meeting, which would be in breach of Premier League rule K3. Now the Gunners have asked for an inquiry to look into claims that their player has been "tapped up". Both clubs have pledged to co-operate with the inquiry which will be conducted on a single day as opposed to being run as an ongoing evaluation. Cole is in negotiations with the Gunners over extending his current deal which ends in 2007. And his Arsenal team-mate Robert Pires has urged the England left-back to stay at Highbury. Pires told the Evening Standard: "He has been at Arsenal for ever. He is a very attacking left-back and I think he is enjoying his football because at Arsenal he plays in an offensive team. "I am not sure he will get the same pleasure at Chelsea, even though they are doing so well at the moment. "I have built a fantastic playing relationship with Ashley. "We play together so well - we could do it with our eyes shut. "But you have to respect the decision of the player. Everybody has that right."
McCall earns Tannadice reprieve Dundee United manager Ian McCall has won a reprieve from the sack, with chairman Eddie Thompson calling for an end to speculation over his future. It is understood that McCall would have been sacked if Sheffield Wednesday manager Paul Sturrock had been willing to return to Tannadice. But Sturrock has distanced himself from the position. "We're in a difficult situation. We must get out of it through the efforts of current personnel," said Thompson. "Ian McCall and I have had a long and detailed talk about a number of areas including the current league position and the manner of the exit from the League Cup," he added. "However, the continuing speculation is doing no one any good, especially as we have several crucial games coming up. "The minds of the coaching staff and the players have to be on those games and those games only. "Our season would of course improve considerably if in the next few weeks we achieved some improved league results and there is also the potential of another cup semi-final, subject to the draw. "All that matters at the present time - is us all having a total focus on the games ahead and a positive series of results being achieved." Dundee United players had expressed their solidarity with McCall after their side's 3-0 Scottish Cup win over Queen of the South. "We want the boss to stay, we don't want someone else coming in," said Jim McIntyre. "Hopefully now he gets the chance to stay." Keeper Tony Bullock echoed McIntyre's sentiments. "I think all the boys are behind Ian McCall," he added. "At the moment it is all speculation and we have got to rise above all that and do a job on the pitch." On Saturday, Sturrock insisted that he had unfinished business with Wednesday, who are fourth in League One. "I've only been here five months and I don't expect to be leaving very, very soon," he said. "I can appreciate the rumours because I've emphasised my thoughts and ambitions to go back to Dundee United. "I can assure you the timescale is not the right one. "It (Dundee United) is my team. I had five years there as a coach, six as a player, two years as a manager - once you've done that kind of thing, it's the result you look for. "The important thing now is I've come here to do a job and I'm going to try to finish it."
Kewell waits as injury drags on Liverpool winger Harry Kewell is struggling to recover from his Achilles tendinitis problem and may not recover until March, claims his agent. Kewell, 26, had hoped to play against Fulham last weekend and to be ready for the Champions League tie against Bayer Leverkusen on 22 February. But Bernie Mandic said: "He's had scans which don't show anything substantial. "But despite his best efforts at the moment he simply can't shake off the discomfort and get back on the park." Mandic continued in the Sydney Morning Herald: "Harry's struggling a bit but the club are doing everything they can to get him right. "Harry was desperate to be fit for the Fulham game as part of his plan to play himself in for the Leverkusen match." Kewell has not played since December 19 and misses out on international duty this week, with Australia facing South Africa in Durban on Wednesday.
Smith aims to bring back respect Scotland manager Walter Smith says he wants to restore the national team's respectability in world football. Smith has joined his first squad for a three-day get-together near Manchester in preference to playing a friendly. While qualification for the 2006 World Cup appears to be beyond Scotland, Smith is anxious that the remainder of the campaign should be positive. "I think we have got to try to get a bit of respectability back in whatever way we can," he said. "We will have to approach each game differently. Obviously we will have to approach the Italian game away from home in a different manner to Moldova at home. "We have to meet the challenge of each match." Smith, meeting a number of his squad for the first time, brought them together on Monday to outline his ideas for improving the nation's fortunes. He said: "I pointed out how I see the international team going forward and that was the main topic. "This is a relaxed gathering and I don't think there is a lot of doom and gloom about the squad that a lot of people think exists." A 25-man squad will spend the next three days based at the Mottram Hall hotel in Cheshire and will train at Manchester United's nearby Carrington complex. Smith will be absent for the final sessions, however, as he is due to fly out to Sardinia on Wednesday to watch Italy's friendly with Russia.
Injury doubts beset Wales squad Wales have a clutch of injury worries before Wednesday's international friendly against Hungary in Cardiff. West Ham's Gavin Williams (ankle) looks certain to be out, so uncapped Wrexham defender Stephen Roberts is drafted in. Defenders Danny Gabbidon and Gareth Roberts, plus Ryan Giggs have hamstring concerns, while there are also doubts over Robbie Savage (groin). However, Manchester United winger Giggs is expected to recover in time to earn his 50th cap at the Millennium Stadium. There were also doubts over Gabbidon's fellow Cardiff defender Rhys Weston, but the full-back appears to have shrugged off the knock he picked up in the Bluebirds' 1-0 loss to West Ham on Sunday. The news leaves Wales boss John Toshack short in defence for his first game in charge, with Aston Villa's Mark Delaney injured and James Collins with the Under-21s. That could clear the way for new faces Danny Collins and Dave Partridge to make their Wales debuts. Coyne (Burnley), Jones (Wolves), Roberts (Wrexham), Collins (Sunderland), Edwards (Wolves), Gabbidon (Cardiff), Page (Cardiff), Partridge (Motherwell), Ricketts (Swansea), Roberts (Tranmere), Weston (Cardiff), Davies (Tottenham), Fletcher (West Ham), Giggs (Man Utd), Koumas (West Brom), Robinson (Sunderland), Savage (Blackburn), Williams (West Ham), Bellamy (Newcastle), Earnshaw (West Brom), Hartson (Celtic).
Weir poised for Sunderland move Larne's teenage star Robbie Weir is poised to join Sunderland after turning down a move to Stoke City. The 17-year-old Irish League midfielder was also being chased by Rangers and Fulham, but Mick McCarthy's side appear to have won the race. But Larne boss Jimmy McGeough has yet to confirm that Weir is on his way from Inver Park. "I heard on Sunday that he has joined Sunderland, but not from the lad himself," he said. ''Robbie has an agreement with Larne that he can negotiate with interested clubs. ''Personally, I would rather see him making an impact at local level to build up his physique before moving into the full-time game. ''He has been on trial with a number of clubs. But it would be great to see him making it at Sunderland.''
Newry to fight cup exit in courts Newry City are expected to discuss legal avenues on Friday regarding overturning their ejection from the Nationwide Irish Cup. The IFA upheld its original decision to throw Newry out of the cup following the Andy Crawford registration row. ''A law firm will put a case forward for Newry FC, and see what the legal implications of all this is are,'' said Newry boss Roy McCreadie. ''This is a big issue, now that we have an appeal pending,'' On Wednesday, a fresh IFA hearing into Crawford registration saga, ruled that last week's original verdict had been correct. It meant that Bangor, beaten 5-1 by Newry on the field, will take on Portadown in the sixth round. Newry had claimed they had uncovered "fresh evidence", in respect of the dates relating to the registration. But McCreadie is not further annoyed that full details of Wednesday's meeting was not relayed to the club. ''Even to this day, we have as much information about what happened during the meeting on Wednesday as that told to the media. We are being kept in the dark,'' McCreadie told the News Letter . ''We want an explanation. There is no good sending us the same fax message the press people received. ''It's a real sad case. If we are not back in the Irish Cup after our appeal, and guided by our legal advise, we will seek to lodge an injunction in the courts to stop Bangor playing Portadown.''
Republic to face China and Italy The Republic of Ireland have arranged friendlies against China and Italy which will take place at Lansdowne Road in March and August. Brian Kerr's side will face the 54th ranked Chinese on 29 March - just three days after the World Cup qualifier against Israel in Tel Aviv. Italy will visit on 17 August in what will be a warm-up game ahead of the autumn World Cup qualifiers. In their last meeting, the Irish beat Italy in the 1994 World Cup Finals. However, that is the Republic's only victory in eight attempts against the Italians who have won all the other seven games. The 29 March game will be the second time the Republic have played China - the previous encounter back in June 1984 with the Irish winning 1-0 in Sapporo, Japan. Brian Kerr said: "China have made great progress over the last few years and will provide difficult opposition. "We all witnessed the performances of the Asian teams in the last World Cup, and China play a similar type of football. "As for Italy, they make a welcome return to Dublin and will be a massive attraction because they are one of the great traditional powers in the world. "The game will be ideal preparation for the three important World Cup qualifiers in the autumn." Ireland round off their World Cup campaign with games against France on 7 September, Cyprus on 8 October and Switzerland on 12 October.
Finnan says Irish can win group Steve Finnan believes the Republic of Ireland can qualify directly for the World Cup finals. After Saturday's superb display in the draw in Paris, Ireland face minnows the Faroe Islands in Dublin on Wednesday. The versatile Finnan, who starred against the French, is confident the group is Ireland's for the taking. "There is a chance for us now to go on, win our home games and why not win the group, even though it's a tough one," said the Liverpool player. Switzerland, Ireland, France and Israel are all now tied on five points from three matches - although the Republic look to have a slight edge after claiming away draws in Basel and Paris. "In Basel we did not play great football, but when you to go to these places the other teams are going to have the majority of the game. "In Paris, we looked good throughout the team and a point was the least we deserved because we had a number of chances. "Looking back, we had an opportunity to get the three points, but we are happy with a point and that will give us confidence going into Wednesday's game. "On paper, we have got the toughest matches out of the way and we have set standards for ourselves. "Automatic qualification is there. It would certainly be good to avoid a play-off, but on the back of a couple of good results I don't see why we can't win the group." Manager Brian Kerr was keen to mention the contribution of Stephen Carr and Finnan on Ireland's right flank at the Stade de France. Finnan's normal position is right-back but he looked assured in a more advanced position against the French. "As I play on the right for my club and being a natural right-back, it was something he (Kerr) looked at because France play strongly down the left-hand side. "So I was happy to play and Stephen Carr and I enjoyed the game, particularly as the defence and midfield held together well and nullified their attacks."
Irish finish with home game Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final World Cup qualifier. Ireland will close their bid to reach the 2006 finals by playing Switzerland in Dublin on 12 October 2005. The Republic met the Swiss in their final Euro 2004 qualifier, losing 2-0 away and missing out on a place in the finals in Portugal. The Group Four fixtures were hammered out at a meeting in Dublin on Tuesday. The Irish open their campaign on 4 September at home to Cyprus and wrap up the 10-match series on 12 October 2005, with the visit of Switzerland. Manager Brian Kerr and FAI officials met representatives from Switzerland, France, Cyprus, Israel and the Faroe Islands to arrange the fixture schedule. Kerr had hoped to finish with a clash against France, but got the reigning European champions as their penultimate home match on 7 September 2005. The manager got his wish to avoid a repeat of finishing their bid to qualify with too many away matches. Republic of Ireland v Cyprus; France v Israel; Switzerland v Faroe Islands. Switzerland v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Cyprus; Faroe Islands v France. France v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Switzerland; Cyprus v Faroe Islands. Republic of Ireland v Faroe Islands; Cyprus v France. Cyprus v Israel. France v Switzerland; Israel v Republic of Ireland. Switzerland v Cyprus; Israel v France. Republic of Ireland v Israel; Faroe Islands v Switzerland. Faroe Islands v Republic of Ireland. August 17 - Faroe Islands v Cyprus. France v Faroe Islands; Switzerland v Israel. Republic of Ireland v France; Cyprus v Switzerland; Faroe Islands v Israel. Switzerland v France; Israel v Faroe Islands; Cyprus v Republic of Ireland. France v Cyprus; Republic of Ireland v Switzerland.
Israeli club look to Africa Four African players, including Zimbabwe goalkeeper Energy Murambadoro, are all ready to play for Israeli club Hapoel Bnei Sakhnin in the Uefa Cup. Bnei Sakhnin are the first Arab side ever to play in European competition and will play English Premiership side Newcastle United in the first round. Warriors' goalkeeper Murambadoro, who made a name for himself at the African Nations Cup finals in Tunisia, helped Bnei Sakhnin overcome Albania's Partizani Tirana 6-1 in the previous round. Murambadoro moved to Israel recently after a brief stint with South African club Hellenic. The club won the Israeli Cup final last season and are based in Sakhnin, which is near Haifa. The club have a strong ethic and are high profile promoters of peace and co-operation within Israel. The three other Africans at the club are former Cameroon defender Ernest Etchi, DR Congo's Alain Masudi and Nigerian midfielder Edith Agoye, who had a stint with Tunisian side Esperance.
Iranian misses Israel match Iranian striker Vahid Hashemian will not travel to Israel for Bayern Munich's Champions League match against Maccabi Tel Aviv on Wednesday. The German club said the player had pulled out because of a back injury. Iran refuses to recognise Israel's right to exist and does not allow its citizens to travel to the country. A Bayern spokesman said on Monday that the decision not to take Hashemian to Israel had been motivated only by his physical condition. "He's got back pain and he couldn't train," the spokesman said. "It would have made no sense for him to go." Iran gave judo world champion Arash Miresmaeili a $125,000 reward when he refused to fight an Israeli at the Athens Olympics. The International Judo Federation considered taking action against Miresmaeili but concluded he had been overweight for the fight and could not have taken part.
Highbury tunnel players in clear The Football Association has said it will not be bringing charges over the tunnel incident prior to the Arsenal and Manchester United game. Arsenal's Patrick Vieira had earlier denied accusations that he threatened Gary Neville before the 4-2 defeat. Vieira also clashed with opposing skipper Roy Keane and referee Graham Poll had to separate them. "The referee has confirmed that he is satisfied he dealt with the incident at the time," said an FA statement. It means United's win will pass off without further intervention from the governing body, whose new chief executive Brian Barwick was in the Highbury stands. "I didn't threaten anybody. They are big enough players to handle themselves," said Vieira. "I had a talk with Roy Keane and that's it. Gary Neville is a big lad, he can handle himself. "They just played better than us and deserved to win." Neville admitted there had been incidents before the game, but insisted it had not distracted his focus. "There were a couple of things that did happen before the game which disappoint you," he said. "Especially from players of that calibre, but it's a tough game and we've been around a long time." Neville admitted that he had not enjoyed the match, which was punctuated by fouls and the sending off of Mikael Silvestre for head-butting Freddie Ljungberg . "I thought it was a horrible game in the first half, and it was not much better in the second," he said. "There is no way that should have happened in a football match." After the match, Keane accused Vieira of starting the row. "Patrick Vieira is 6ft 4in and having a go at Gary Neville. So I said, 'have a go at me'," he said. "If he wants to intimidate our players and thinks that Gary Neville is an easy target, I'm not having it." Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson added: "Vieira was well wound up for it. "I've heard different stories. Patrick Vieira has apparently threatened some of our players and things like that."
Bellamy under new fire Newcastle boss Graeme Souness has reopened his dispute with Craig Bellamy after claiming the Welshman was "not good enough" for the Magpies. Bellamy left Newcastle to join Celtic on loan after a major row with Souness. Souness - who refused to refer to the 25-year-old by name - said Bellamy did not score enough goals "The chap that's just gone has scored 9.3 goals a season in his time in senior football - half of those weren't even in the top flight," said Souness. "That's not good enough for a striker at a club like this. "We need to have two strikers who are near 20 goals on a regular basis." Bellamy turned down a move to Birmingham in favour of joining Celtic after a disagreement about the Welsh international playing out of position quickly escalated. Earlier in the week, Souness had said that he risked losing the confidence of the players and damaging his own reputation if he had not taken a hard line after Bellamy accused him of lying. "There are certain things you can forgive and forget," said Souness. "But if I'd been seen to be weak in this case there was no future for me with the players in the dressing room or any job I have after Newcastle." He could then return to St James' Park - and he says that he wants to. However, it would seem unlikely he will play for Newcastle again as long as Souness remains in charge.
Chelsea denied by James heroics A brave defensive display, led by keeper David James, helped Manchester City hold the leaders Chelsea. After a quiet opening, James denied Damien Duff, Jiri Jarosik and Mateja Kezman, while Paul Bosvelt cleared William Gallas' header off the line. Robbie Fowler should have scored for the visitors but sent his header wide. Chelsea had most of the possession in the second half but James kept out Frank Lampard's free-kick and superbly tipped the same player's volley wide. City went into the game with the proud record of being the only domestic team to beat Chelsea this season. And there was little to alarm them in the first 30 minutes as Chelsea - deprived of Arjen Robben and Didier Drogba through injury - struggled to pose much of a threat. Indeed, it was the visitors who looked likelier to enliven a drab opening played at a lethargic pace. Shaun Wright-Phillips - watched by England boss Sven-Goran Eriksson - showed his customary trickery to burst into the right of the area and deliver a dangerous ball, which was blocked by John Terry. But Chelsea suddenly stepped up a gear and created a flurry of chances. First, Duff got round Ben Thatcher and blasted in a shot that James parried to Kezman, who turned the ball wide. Soon afterwards, Jarosik found space in the area to powerfully head Lampard's corner goalwards but James tipped the ball over. Chelsea were now looking more like Premiership leaders and James kept out Kezman's fierce drive before Bosvelt and James combined to clear Gallas' header from Duff's corner. City broke swiftly up the field and the last chance of a frenetic spell should have resulted in Fowler celebrating his 150th Premiership goal. Wright-Phillips raced down the left and crossed to Fowler but City's lone man up front, left free by Terry's slip, contrived to head wide when it seemed a breakthrough was certain. The second half started as quietly as the first, although James was forced to divert a cross from the lively Duff away from Eidur Gudjohnsen's path. There was a nasty moment for Petr Cech, looking for a ninth straight clean sheet in the league, when a series of ricochets saw Fowler chase a loose ball in the area and collide accidently with the Czech Republic stopper. Another quiet spell followed, which Duff interrupted with a surging run that was halted illegally on the edge of the penalty area by Bosvelt. Lampard stepped up to blast a shot through the wall and James somehow blocked it with his legs. Another timely challenge, this time from Richard Dunne in time added on, prevented Gudjohnsen from getting in a shot. There was still time for James to produce a sensational save to tip Lampard's volley round the post. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Gallas, Terry, Bridge, Jarosik (Tiago 56), Lampard, Makelele, Duff, Gudjohnsen, Kezman (Cole 63). Subs Not Used: Johnson, Smertin, Cudicini. Makelele, Gudjohnsen. James, Mills, Distin, Dunne, Thatcher, Shaun Wright-Phillips, Bosvelt, Barton, Sibierski (McManaman 85), Musampa, Fowler. Subs Not Used: Macken, Weaver, Onuoha, Jordan. Bosvelt. 42,093 H Webb (S Yorkshire).
Chelsea ridiculed over complaint Barcelona assistant coach Henk Ten Cate has branded Chelsea's expected complaint to Uefa as "pathetic". The Blues are poised to complain about an alleged half-time incident during Wednesday's 2-1 loss at the Nou Camp. The source of Chelsea's anger was an alleged talk between Barca boss Frank Rijkaard and referee Anders Frisk, who later dismissed Didier Drogba. "To react the way Chelsea have is pathetic. Mourinho lied with the line-ups, and now this," Ten Cate said. Uefa has said its own tunnel representative witnessed nothing unusual out of the ordinary during the half-time break. Spokesman William Gaillard said: "Frisk says Rijkaard greeted him and apologised he had not had the opportunity to say hello before the game. "We had two Uefa officials there and neither witnessed it. The referee's dressing room was locked and he and his assistants were the only people allowed in." Indeed, it is the Londoners who could be on the receiving end of any punishment after failing to turn up for the compulsory press conference after the defeat. Uefa delegate Thomas Giordano added: "The only unusual thing that happened as far as we are concerned is that Chelsea failed to present themselves in the press conference." The referee is not expected to include any of the alleged incidents in his report to Uefa - weakening Chelsea's case. Rijkaard was critical of Mourinho's decision not to speak to the media after the match. "There was a lot of talking before the game and now surprisingly there is a lot of talking after the game. It is not good behaviour after a match," he said. "Maybe they want to start something and make it worse than than it is. I really don't understand it. I am very calm about it." Barca midfielder Deco, formerly managed by Mourinho at Porto, agreed that it was not typical of his fellow Portuguese to lodge a protest. "It's not normal behaviour on his part. It was not logical he did not give a news conference," he said. Rijkaard added: "Chelsea is the team which has conceded fewest goals in the English league and they defend very well so I am very pleased with the win. "My men deserved victory and I am pleased to have won this match. I congratulate my players."
Benitez issues warning to Gerrard Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has ordered captain Steven Gerrard not to play down their Champions League ambitions and be more positive. Gerrard told the BBC Liverpool were unlikely to win the trophy this year. Benitez responded: "I spoke to Steven and said to him that in future it's better to think we can win the Champions League. Why not?" He said: "We need winners here and everyone thinking only of winning. I always want to win." Benitez added: "When we lose I only think of solutions. If you only think about winning the next game, you don't know what the draw will be. "If we can win the next game, maybe we will draw a side that isn't so strong, or a side with injuries or suspensions." Benitez is hoping to win his first trophy since arriving at Liverpool from Valencia when they play Chelsea in the Carling Cup on Sunday in Cardiff.
Owen determined to stay in Madrid England forward Michael Owen has told the BBC he is happy in Spain and has no plans to quit Real Madrid to return to the Premiership in the near future. But the 25-year-old, who has spent much of his time coming off the bench in La Liga, did not rule out a return to the Premiership at some stage. "I'm pleased with the start I've made here," he told BBC Radio Five Live. "England is my country. It's definitely part of me but who knows whether, if or when I'll be playing there again." Owen, who moved to the Bernabeu from Liverpool last summer, has grabbed 11 goals for Real but has been unable to replace Raul or Ronaldo in the starting line-up. However, he said he was delighted with the way his time in Spain was going and dismissed criticism of his decision to join Real. "When I first came there was a lot of scepticism back in England, any maybe some out here," he said. "People were saying 'fourth-choice striker, what are you going there for? You'll be sat on the bench all the time'. "But as much as our press like to build it up as if I've permanently had my backside on the bench, I've played as many games as anyone else in the team this year. "For a fourth-choice striker at the start I'm more than happy with the way I've settled in." Recent speculation has linked Owen with a move back to England, with Newcastle expressing their interest, but the England striker said he is not ready to return home. He added: "I've got nothing against the Premiership, I mean that's where I first performed, that's where I made my name. "I can't keep my eyes off the Premiership on television when I'm at home." When asked if it would have to be Liverpool if he returned Owen said: "I've not really given it much thought. "I've got great memories of Liverpool. No matter what happens it'll always be a club I have fond memories of and it will always have a place in my heart. "It's very flattering to be linked to top clubs in England - I'm glad that no-one is forgetting me! "But I couldn't have wished for a better start in Madrid." - Listen to the full interview with Garry Richardson on BBC Radio Five Live's Sportsweek at 0900 GMT on Sunday.
Wenger handed summer war chest Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer. The club's managing director, Keith Edelman, stressed that the development of their new £350m stadium had no affect on Wenger's spending power. "The money is there. Don't worry we've got it," Edelman told BBC Sport. "Hopefully, we'll spend it this summer and in the coming years. Arsene attends all our board meetings and he knows our finances are very strong." Edelman added that it was pointless having a brand new stadium if the team did not match the surroundings. "Its great to have nice, new surroundings, but if the team aren't performing on the pitch, then there isn't great respect in having a fabulous stadium," he said. "It's important that we had sufficient funds for our team in place, before we began on the stadium."
Souness delight at Euro progress Boss Graeme Souness felt Newcastle were never really in danger of going out of the Uefa Cup against Heerenveen. An early own goal followed by an Alan Shearer strike earned them a 2-1 win and a place in the Uefa Cup last 16. "Obviously with winning in the first leg it gave us a great advantage," he said after the 4-2 aggregate victory. "We got our goals early and in the minds of some players the job was done but then they got a goal and perhaps made us a bit nervous." Shearer's goal moved him within 12 of Jackie Milburn's club scoring record of 200 for the Magpies. But Souness said he did not think beating the record would have any bearing on his decision to retire at the end of the season. "I think if he got it this year he would want to stay next year anyway," he added. "He struck the ball very well - he always has done - and I think it was the power and pace that beat the goalkeeper." Souness also paid tribute to Laurent Robert, who was at the heart of much of United's attacking play. "In the first half he did really well and did everything you want from a wide player. More of the same in future please," he said.
Downing injury mars Uefa victory Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren hopes that Stewart Downing did not seriously damage his hamstring during the 2-1 Uefa Cup win over Graz AK. The winger was carried off on a stretcher in the closing stages as Boro booked their place in the last 16. McClaren said: "Stewart has tweaked a hamstring, which is a blow for us. We will assess it in the morning. "But I'm delighted with the match result. They say in sport you can win ugly - and we certainly did." McClaren was relieved to make it through after a tough encounter at The Riverside. "To be fair to Graz, they had a gameplan - they knocked the ball forward, especially in the first half, and we struggled to deal with it. "In the second half we were better but it was frustrating because we got the goal - but one slip and they were back in it." Boro face Sporting Lisbon for a place in the quarter-finals after the Portuguese side saw off Feyenoord on Thursday. And McClaren added: "Sporting are technically very good - Portuguese sides always are. "But the journey goes on for us and we will now go to their magnificent stadium - after the first game here - we'll look forward to it." Goalscorer Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink added: "It wasn't a particularly beautiful match to watch - but they made it difficult for us. "We didn't play well at all. But you need a little bit of luck and I think we got that when my shot went through the legs of their goalkeeper. "I would have liked to play in Holland - that would have been a little bit special to me. "But so is going back to Portugal - I'll be playing against some lads I played with at Boavista."
Rangers seal Old Firm win Goals from Gregory Vignal and Nacho Novo gave Rangers a scrappy victory at Celtic Park that moves them three points clear of the champions. Rangers had rarely threatened until Celtic goalkeeper Rab Douglas let defender Vignal's 25-yard drive slip through his grasp and into the net. Opposite number Ronald Waterreus had been Rangers' hero, saving superbly from Craig Bellamy and John Hartson. Striker Novo secured victory, lobbing Douglas with eight minutes remaining. It ended Celtic's 11-game unbeaten run at home in Old Firm derbies and gave Rangers manager Alex McLeish his first victory at the home of his Glasgow rivals. Celtic had won their last six meetings on their home pitch, including twice already this season. They started confidently, with new signing Bellamy, on loan from Newcastle United, given his Celtic debut up front with Wales international colleague John Hartson and Chris Sutton dropping into midfield. It took Bellamy just four minutes to threaten, taking on Marvin Andrews before delivering a low drive that was held by Waterreus at the second attempt. He had an even better chance after Hartson dispossesed Sotiris Kyrgiakos and sent his strike partner clear with only the goalkeeper to beat. But Waterreus did well to beat away Bellamy's disappointing low drive from 16 yards. Waterreus came to the rescue again when the ball fell to Hartson just inside the box and the Dutch goalkeeper made a brave block. It was an Old Firm return for Barry Ferguson as McLeish stuck by the side that thumped four goals past Hibernian. But Rangers found Celtic harder to break down and Douglas was not threatened until 10 minutes after the break. Dado Prso turned inside Neil Lennon only for the Celtic goalkeeper to beat away his powerful 18-yard drive. A great defensive header by Andrews prevented Hartson pouncing from five yards out. Hartson foxed Vignal at the edge of the Rangers box, but the striker's shot on the turn was again beaten away by Waterreus. Rangers were beginning to dominate the midfield and Vignal, collecting a knock back from Fernando Ricksen, broke the deadlock, Douglas somehow letting the Frenchman's dipping drive slip through his grasp. Novo pounced on a moments' hesitation in the Celtic defence to latch on to a long ball from Ricksen and lob the ball over the advancing Douglas. Ricksen appeared to be hit by a coin, but it could not prevent Rangers' celebrations at the final whistle. : Douglas, McNamara, Balde, Varga, Laursen, Petrov, Lennon, Sutton, Thompson, Bellamy, Hartson. Subs: Marshall, Henchoz, Juninho Paulista, Lambert, Maloney, Wallace, McGeady. : Waterreus, Hutton, Kyrgiakos, Andrews, Ball, Buffel, Ferguson, Ricksen, Vignal, Prso, Novo. Subs: McGregor, Namouchi, Burke, Alex Rae, Malcolm, Thompson, Lovenkrands. : M McCurry
SFA awaits report over Mikoliunas The Scottish Football Association is awaiting referee Hugh Dallas's report before acting against Hearts winger Saulius Mikoliunas. Mikoliunas, 20, barged linesman Andy Davis, who had advised Dallas to award Rangers an injury-time penalty in Hearts's 2-1 defeat at Tynecastle. "He was sent off for violent conduct in the 90th minute but we don't know if he did something else after the whistle. "We don't know how many red cards he was shown," said an SFA statement. Hearts could also face action after three fans were arrested for throwing coins on the pitch. Rangers' striker Dad Prso was also sent off during the same incident when he received a second yellow card for wrestling the ball away from Craig Gordon and leaving the Hearts keeper on the ground. The SFA said: "Once the referee's report comes in then we'll immediately look at things. "We don't normally get the reports until a couple of days after the game but we're well aware of what happened here. "Prso was sent off for two cautions, and that will just be a one-match suspension." The SFA is certain to come down hard on Mikoliunas after Southampton's David Prutton was banned for 10-games on Wednesday by the English FA for shoving referee Alan Wiley. Hearts' boss John Robertson said: "Mikoliunas has thrown his chest against the assistant referee's chest and got a red card for it. "The officials have got to take into account the fact he's a young lad. "But people have got to take into account why he was incensed. Why were 10,000 Hearts fans incensed? "Why did nobody from the Rangers' bench claim for a penalty kick?" Rangers' boss Alex McLeish accepted referee Dallas had no option but to send Prso off. McLeish said: "I'm glad to see the spirit of the players fighting to the very end - literally with Dado trying to get the ball back from Craig Gordon. "But it was over-zealousness and I don't think Hugh had any option."
Palace threat over Cantona masks Manchester United fans wearing Eric Cantona masks will not be allowed in Selhurst Park on Saturday. United fans are planning to mark the 10th anniversary of Cantona's infamous kung-fu kick on Crystal Palace fan Matthew Simmons by wearing the masks. But Palace stadium manager Kevin Corner has warned: "If they wear them inside Selhurst Park they will be immediately rejected on safety grounds. "And no fans wearing Cantona masks will be allowed entry to the stadium." United fans had declared Saturday as 'Cantona Day' and had planned to wear masks, that were popular during the Frenchman's time as a player at the Old Trafford club. Cantona received a nine-month ban following the incident and Palace are keen to avoid an incident that would stir up ill feeling between the two sets of supporters. Four months after the Cantona incident a Palace fan, Paul Nixon, was killed prior to an FA Cup semi-final at Villa Park.
Legendary Dutch boss Michels dies Legendary Dutch coach Rinus Michels, the man credited with developing "total football", has died aged 77. Referred to in the Netherlands as "the General", Michels led the Dutch at the 1974 World Cup - when they reached the final only to lose 2-1 to Germany. However, he guided his side to the 1988 European Championship title with a 2-0 win over the Soviet Union in the final. Michels played for Ajax and coached the side to four national titles between 1965-71 and a European Cup in 1971. His 1970s Dutch team was built around Johan Cruyff and Johan Neeskens and introduced the concept of 'total football' to the world. The strategy was to foster team coherence and individual imagination - with all players possessing the skills to play in any part of the pitch. Cruyff was the on-field organiser of a team whose players rotated in and out of defence at will and was encouraged to play creative attacking football. Michels had recently undergone heart surgery and Dutch football federation (KNVB) spokesman Frank Huizinga said: "He was one of the best coaches we had in history." The no-nonsense coach also enjoyed spells at Barcelona, who he took to a Spanish title in 1974, FC Cologne and Bayer Leverkusen. Michels, named coach of the century by world football's governing body Fifa in 1999, also won five caps for the Netherlands as a bruising centre forward. Dutch sports minister Clemence Ross-van Dorp said: "He was the man who, together with Cruyff, made Dutch football big."
Jol joy at 'professional' Cup win Tottenham manager Martin Jol acclaimed his players for their patience in their 3-0 FA Cup fifth-round victory over a determined Nottingham Forest side. "We had the initiative but it wasn't easy. It was a professional sort of performance," the Dutchman said. "Forest played with a lot of players behind the ball in the first half, but at 2-0 they were dead and buried." Looking ahead to the quarter-final, Jol said: "Newcastle have got a very good side and they are always difficult." However, he added that his side, who are four places above the Magpies in the Premiership, were "not afraid of anyone". Robbie Keane, skipper for the night and scorer of the crucial second goal, echoed his manager's sentiments on the last-eight match. "They're on a high, but we're confident and in the last few games we've played well and hopefully we can go there and get the win," he said. He conceded the win over Forest, which included goals from Noe Pamarot and Mido, was not pretty to watch. "It wasn't the best display but it's all about the result," the Irishman said. "We knew it was going to be difficult with the conditions. The pitch wasn't the best but we still tried to pass it. "We dug in and the gaffer said to us at half-time to keep being patient and that the goal will come." Forest manager Gary Megson conceded his team did not deserve anything after a poor performance. "If you play like we did and concede two goals from corners you're going to have an uphill battle against a very good team," he said. "If we defend in the Championship like we did we'll not get another point. "We were organised but I felt at times we thought the system would be enough but we didn't look like scoring."
Owen delighted with Real display Michael Owen revelled in his return to the to the Real Madrid starting line-up and inspired a 3-1 win over Real Betis on Wednesday by scoring the first goal. He said: "I am happy I could play a game from the start again. "I felt good all though the game and it is obvious that I am happy to have scored another goal. "People have talked a lot about my performances and I think I have had some months that were not so good and others that were very good." Owen, starting his third successive La Liga match, converted a low cross from Santiago Solari. Robert Carlos made it 2-0 at the break, smashing home an indirect free-kick. Midfielder Edu reduced the deficit after half-time but Ivan Helguera headed past keeper Antonio Doblas to seal victory for his team. Victory took Real to within six points of leaders Barcelona and Owen is confident Real can close the gap. He added: "We had several chances against Betis and I think we can get back in touch with Barcelona. "It is only six points between Barcelona and us and that is nothing. If we can beat them at the Bernabeu (on 10 April), then it will be just three." Owen has scored nine league goals, one behind Real's top scorer Ronaldo. Real had lost their previous two league games.
Ferguson fears Milan cutting edge Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said his side's task against AC Milan would not be made any easier by the absence of Andriy Shevchenko. Milan's talismanic European footballer of the year misses Wednesday's Champions League first-leg tie after fracturing his cheekbone. "It's a loss (to Milan), but it could be worse if they didn't have such quality to bring in," Ferguson said. "How much they miss him I think they'll know tomorrow night." Ferguson said Milan's front line would still represent a formidable challenge for his defenders. "They can play Rui Costa and play Kaka forward. They can bring Serginho in and they can play (Jon Dahl) Tomasson," he said. Ferguson's own goalscoring talisman Ruud van Nistelrooy is fit again, but the Scot admitted he was unsure whether to start the Dutchman, who has not played for three months. "Ruud is the best striker in Europe. What I have to judge is whether he will struggle with the early pace after being out for so long," he said. "His ability puts him in with a big shout but it is a major decision." Ferguson, though, is confident his young players, particularly Wayne Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo, are up to the task. "We have an opportunity to win this cup this year, no question about that," he declared. "With the maturity we see every week in Ronaldo and Rooney, the return of Van Nistelrooy and the form of Roy Keane, Paul Scholes and Ryan Giggs, we must have a fantastic chance." It is a view shared by Rooney, who believes "if we can get past Milan, we have a great chance". "As soon as I knew we were playing Milan, I got excited. Looking at the draw, it is anyone's trophy but we have every chance. "Hopefully, we can get to that final in Turkey and bring the cup back to Manchester." Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti said his team were looking forward to returning to the venue where they lifted Europe's most prestigious club title two seasons ago. Milan beat Juventus in a penalty shootout after a 0-0 tie at Old Trafford and Ancelotti said: "We are all very happy to return (to Old Trafford) to play in the Champions League and this will give us great motivation." Ancelotti said he was aware of the threat United posed to his hopes of Champions League glory. "It's fundamental that we don't allow them to take control of the game. Our intention is not to adapt to their play but to play our game," he said. "They have great quality in attack, they use the wings a lot and we will have to make sure we stop them."
Rush future at Chester uncertain Ian Rush's future as Chester manager is uncertain after he and assistant Mark Aizlewood refused a severance package. Chester have won only two of their last 10 League games but Chairman Steve Vaughan claims he cannot afford to sack the 43-year-old Liverpool legend. Vaughan said: "I offered a financial settlement so they could resign with dignity but an obvious action is to dismiss them. "I haven't because of the finances, so technically they're still employees." Vaughan claimed that Aizlewood had "verbally agreed" to the offer. But the Chester chairman added: "After they discussed the offer with their solicitor, who also acts as their agent, they decided to withdraw the verbal agreement, which was disappointing." Rush was appointed at the end of August following the departure of former Liverpool team-mate Mark Wright, who guided Chester to the Conference title last season. Chester were bottom of League Two when Rush took over but the former Liverpool striker enjoyed an impressive start to managerial life, taking the club into the third round of the FA cup and winning the manager-of-the-month award for October. Chester's downturn in form culminated in a 5-0 defeat at Shrewsbury that leaves them hovering just above the League Two relegation zone.
Reyes tricked into Real admission Jose Antonio Reyes has added to speculation linking him with a move from Arsenal to Real Madrid after falling victim to a radio prank. The Spaniard believed he was talking to Real Madrid sporting director Emilio Butragueno when he allegedly berated his team-mates as "bad people". "I wish I was playing for Real Madrid," the 21-year-old told Cadena Cope. "Hopefully it could happen. I love the way Madrid play. I'm not happy with the way things are." The striker joined the Gunners from Seville for £17m at the start of 2004, but it has frequently been reported that he is homesick. He began the season in superb form but has struggled to maintain his high standards as Arsenal have gradually lost the Premiership initiative to Manchester United and Chelsea. "If I'm not (playing for Real) I'm going to have to carry on playing with some bad people," he added. "I'm sure there are none in the Real dressing room. "I'm happy Madrid is interested in me because it has always been my dream since I was little to play there." Before the story surfaced, Reyes had moved to play down reports linking him with the Spanish giants, issuing a statement through Arsenal describing the speculation as "flattering". "I have seen the stories in the media linking me with Real Madrid," he had said on Thursday lunchtime. "But not only am I under contract at Arsenal, I am happy here and committed to helping the team win more trophies." Butragueno, meanwhile, was angry at being impersonated by the radio disc jockey. "It is a disgrace, there is no foundation to this," he said. "He is an Arsenal player and we have to be respectful. We have to be careful because of the rumours that appear in the news."
Benitez joy as Reds take control Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez was satisfied after his team's 3-1 win over Bayer Leverkusen despite conceding a goal in the last minute. "Before the game if you had said the score will be 3-1 I would have happily accepted that," said Benitez. "But you must realise that you have to concentrate right to the very last seconds of a game at this level. "I have confidence that we can complete the task in Germany. I am always confident and we must be positive." Benitez defended goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek, whose failure to hold on to Dimitar Berbatov's weak drive allowed Franca to score with the last kick of the game - and give the German team a lifeline for the second leg. "For me it was not Jerzy Dudek's fault," added Benitez. "He had played a very good game - and had we scored our other chances, nobody would be talking about about their goal. It would not have mattered. "If we had scored our other chances it would not have been worth remembering that last goal. "In my opinion Jerzy played well, made two very fine saves - and I am happy with him. "If we lose 2-0 we are out but I think we can score in Germany - certainly one, and that will make all the difference." And the Liverpool boss is looking forward to having skipper Steven Gerrard, who was suspended for the Anfield leg, back for the return in Germany. "Steven Gerrard is a key player for us," said Benitez. "When he is on the pitch he makes everyone else play better - and the opposition pay special attention to him - which gives space for others. "Steven is one of the best players in the world, but I need a team that is not about just one player. There must be 11 players on the pitch all doing well."
Souness eyes summer move for Owen Newcastle boss Graeme Souness is lining up a summer move for England and Real Madrid striker Michael Owen. He sees Owen as the ideal replacement for Alan Shearer, who is due to retire in the summer, although he hopes to persuade Shearer to carry on. "Michael is in the category of players who would excite the fans and we're monitoring him," he told BBC Newcastle. "He is a great centre-forward and only 25 but I don't think we're the only ones monitoring the situation at Real." Souness has also hinted he thinks Shearer may carry on despite his stated intent to retire at the end of the season. He believes the prospect of breaking Jackie Milburn's club scoring record may influence the striker's decision. Milburn scored 200 league and cup goals between 1946 and 1957, while Shearer currently has 187 goals to his name. "Without giving too much away, I am confident he will be here next season," said Souness. "I can't imagine him leaving without breaking Jackie Milburn's scoring record." Souness also revealed he tried to bring back Nolberto Solano during the January transfer window. The Peruvian international was sold to Aston Villa a year ago but in the phone-in for BBC Newcastle, Souness said tried to re-sign him, but Villa were not interested in selling. The former Rangers and Liverpool boss is also looking to bring in a number of new acquisitions once the current campaign has been completed. "I'm after three, four or five new players in the summer - we have got lots of targets," he said. "Don't think we will wait to the last day of the season to say: `Who are we going to target now?"'
Wenger dejected as Arsenal slump Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger claimed their display in the 3-1 defeat against Bayern Munich was "our worst peformance in the Champions League". Kolo Toure's late goal gives the Gunners hope for the second leg, but Wenger said: "The only positive is that we are still in the tie. "The players are really down in the dressing-room. I feel we really turned in a bad performance. "At 3-0 we faced a real struggle, but 3-1 at least gives us a chance." Goalscorer Toure was also at fault for two goals, and Wenger said: "We need to help Toure rebuild his confidence as he is low at the moment." Wenger also tried to stay upbeat himself, adding: "But there is enough time for crying. I could cry - maybe it would be easier - but life goes on. "In this job, you have good and bad nights. This was a bad night - but I still have confidence in the quality of my players, as well as their spirit and desire." But Wenger's Bayern counterpart Felix Magath was in no mood to celebrate either. He said: "I am far from happy despite the win. My players failed to try and score a fourth to kill the tie and then conceded the late goal. "Arsenal are fully capable of scoring several goals against us on their own turf." Arsenal keeper Jens Lehmann, whose personal rivalry with Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn was not helped by the result, said: "Do I blame myself for the third goal? As a goalkeeper, I always blame myself. "I just know the goals were very easy against us. In my time here, we have never conceded three easy goals like that - but sometimes it happens. "It would have been impossible to go through at 3-0 - but with the goal we have chances. Everything is now possible."
Stam spices up Man Utd encounter AC Milan defender Jaap Stam says Manchester United "know they made a mistake" by selling him in 2001. The sides meet at Old Trafford in the Champions League game on Wednesday and the 32-year-old's Dutchman's presence is sure to add spice to the fixture. "United made a mistake in selling me," Stam told Uefa's Champions magazine. "I was settled at Manchester United, but they wanted to sell me. If a club want to sell you, there is nothing you can do. You can be sold like cattle." Sir Alex Ferguson surprised the football world - and Stam - by selling the Dutchman to Lazio for £16.5m in August 2001. The decision came shortly after Stam claimed in his autobiography that Ferguson had tapped him up when he was at PSV Eindhoven. But Ferguson insisted he sold the defender because the transfer fee was too good to refuse for a player past his prime. The affair still rankles with the Dutchman. "I was settled at Manchester United, I had even just ordered a new kitchen, but they wanted to sell me," he said. "In what other industry can a good employee be ushered out the door against their wishes? "Of course, you can refuse to go, but then the club have the power to put you on the bench. I don't agree that players control the game. "There have been opportunities to confront them in the newspapers, but I have turned them down. What's the point?" Wednesday's game at Old Trafford will provide an intriguing confrontation between United's young attackers Wayne Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo and Milan's veteran defence of Stam, Paolo Maldini, Cafu and Alessandro Costacurta. Stam says Rooney's teenage stardom is in stark contract to his own start in the game. "We can't all be Wayne Rooneys - at his age I was training to be an electrician and thought my chance of becoming a professional footballer had gone," he said. "Starting late can be a good thing. Some kids who start early get bored. "I had my youth - having fun, drinking beers, blowing up milk cannisters. It sounds strange but it's a tradition where I grew up in Kampen - and I had done all the things I wanted to do."
Mourinho defiant on Chelsea form Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho has insisted that Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger would swap places with him. Mourinho's side were knocked out of the FA Cup by Newcastle last Sunday before seeing Barcelona secure a 2-1 Champions League first-leg lead in the Nou Camp. But he denied his club was suffering a dip in form which league rivals Arsenal and Manchester United could exploit. "They cannot speak to us about blips because they're not in a better position than us," Mourinho said. "Do they want to change positions with us? We are top of the league by nine points and in the Carling Cup final. "The only thing they can say they are in a better position than us in is the FA Cup. "In the Champions League all three teams can either go through or go out but the one team that is in the best position is still Chelsea." Mourinho said it was important to keep his team's results in perspective. "Don't try to put pressure on me because I am never under pressure," he warned. "We have lost one important game this week - at Newcastle - and we're out of the FA Cup but I don't think a defeat in a first-leg tie is a real defeat. We are just 2-1 down at half-time." Asked if his Chelsea honeymoon was now over, Mourinho replied: "I have had 20 years of honeymoons with my wife. "The day that this club is not happy with me is the day that I go."
Hodgson relishes European clashes Former Blackburn boss Roy Hodgson says the Premiership should follow the rest of Europe and have a winter break - but insists that a gruelling domestic schedule will not damage the English elite's bid for Champions League glory. Hodgson - now in charge at Viking Stavanger - was at Liverpool's clash with Bayer Leverkusen at Anfield on Tuesday as a member of Uefa's technical committee. Hodgson is a fierce advocate of the winter break employed throughout Europe, although not in England - where the Champions League contenders have ploughed through a heavy fixture list. But Hodgson told BBC Sport that while he believes the Premiership should embrace the idea, he does not expect it to cost the English representatives in the last 16 of the Champions League. "I just feel it is very difficult to say with certainty that teams who have had the break will have a definite edge. "I am a fervent supporter of the break. It gives players the chance to recharge their batteries midway through the season, which some suggest will give teams an advantage in the Champions League. "The other school of thought suggests having a break then coming back to it puts you at a disadvantage. "The bigger discussions around the winter break should be to do with the nature of football today, the needs of football players and the way the Premiership has developed, rather than one or two matches in the Champions League in February." Hodgson believes a winter break carries many advantages, explaining: "As I said, it is the perfect chance to recharge batteries. "And certainly if I was still a manager in England I would be supporting any calls for its introduction. "In pre-season you get a lot of enthusiasm and energy but by the time you get towards Christmas many players, having also played plenty of international matches for club and country and travelled a lot, find themselves getting very jaded. "The break gives them a chance to recover that energy and enthusiasm and, perhaps more importantly, recover their mental strength during the break and get ready for the games ahead. "The mental side is by far the most important thing." Hodgson added: "The length of breaks can vary. In Italy the break was very short. You just took Christmas and New Year. "It was so short you didn't do anything. You gave the players a week or 10 days off, then you were training for a week or 10 days and then went into a game. "If it is longer, it is important those responsible for physical fitness give the players a programme to follow to ensure the physical strength they have accumulated stays with them." And Hodgson believes a winter break would be a positive step in the Premiership. He said: "If we talk about football at elite level, which the Premiership is, then I would support a winter break. "If you examine the demands of the Premier League and, in particular on players who play international football for their club and country, then a break would do them the world of good - physically and mentally."
Coach Ranieri sacked by Valencia Claudio Ranieri has been sacked as Valencia coach just eight months after taking charge at the Primera Liga club for the second time in his career. The decision was taken at a board meeting following the side's surprise elimination from the Uefa Cup. "We understand, and he understands, that the results in the last few weeks have not been the most appropriate," said club president Juan Bautista. Former assistant Antonio Lopez will take over as the new coach. Italian Ranieri took over the Valencia job in June 2004 having been replaced at Chelsea by Jose Mourinho. Things began well but the Spanish champions extended their winless streak to six after losing to Racing Santander last weekend. That defeat was then followed by a Uefa Cup exit at the hands of Steaua Bucharest. Ranieri first took charge of Valencia in 1997, guiding them to the King's Cup and helping them to qualify for the Champions League. The 54-year-old then moved to Atletico Madrid in 1999, before joining Chelsea the following year.
Cole faces lengthy injury lay-off Aston Villa's Carlton Cole could be out for six weeks with a knee injury. The striker, who is on a season-long loan from Chelsea, picked up the knock in an England Under-21 match against Holland earlier this month. "Carlton will be out of action for four to six weeks after a bad challenge," said Villa boss David O'Leary. "I won't be able to tell you whether he will need an operation until maybe next week. Whether he has an operation has got to be left to Chelsea." Cole, who also struggled with an ankle problem earlier in the season, was unable to rest because O'Leary had a shortage of strikers. The return to fitness of Darius Vassell after four months out with a broken ankle and the emergence of Luke Moore has alleviated some of the Villa's manager's problems in that department.
Arsenal through on penalties Arsenal win 4-2 on penalties The Spanish goalkeeper saved from Alan Quinn and Jon Harley as Arsenal sealed a quarter-final trip to Bolton with a 4-2 victory on penalties. Lauren, Patrick Vieira, Freddie Ljungberg and Ashley Cole scored for Arsenal, while Andy Gray and Phil Jagielka were on target for the Blades. Michael Tonge and Harley wasted chances for the underdogs, but Paddy Kenny was inspired to keep Arsenal at bay. Arsenal, stripped of attacking talent such as Thierry Henry and Dennis Bergkamp, partnered 17-year-old Italian striker Arturo Lupoli with Ljungberg up front. It was a revamped Arsenal line-up, and they were almost a goal behind within seconds as Tonge wasted a glorious chance. Gray ran free down the right flank, and his cross left Tonge with the simplest of chances, but he blazed over the top from six yards. Arsenal were barely seen as an attacking force in the opening 45 minutes, although Ljungberg turned a half-chance wide after good work by Cesc Fabregas. Arsene Wenger introduced Quincy Owusu-Abeyie for the ineffective Lupoli at half-time, and the pacy Dutch youngster had an immediate impact. He ran clear after good work by Mathieu Flamini, but his finish was tame and Kenny saved easily. Owusu-Abeyie then fired in a testing cross, which was met by Fabregas, and it needed a desperate clearance by Kenny's legs to save the Blades. Arsenal were now totally dominant, and were desperately unlucky not to take the lead after 62 minutes when Fabregas crashed a rising drive against the bar from 20 yards. It then took a brilliant tackle by Jagielka to deny Ljungberg as he was poised to strike. Arsenal continued to press, and once again Kenny was called into action with eight minutes left, diving low to clutch another close-range effort from Fabregas. Neil Warnock's side almost snatched victory in the dying seconds when Derek Geary's cross found Harley at the far post, but his diving header was brilliantly turned over by Almunia. Owusu-Abeyie's pace was causing all sorts of problems for the Blades, and as extra-time began, another surging run into the penalty area almost set up a chance for Ljungberg. Pascal Cygan missed Arsenal's best chance after 106 minutes, blazing across the face of goal when he was unmarked at the far post. Arsenal sent on Jeremie Aliadiere with seven minutes of extra-time left, and he almost broke the deadlock with his first touch. Kolo Toure's misplaced free-kick landed at his feet, but Kenny once again blocked from a tight angle. Arsenal laid siege to Sheffield United's goal in the dying minutes, but they somehow held on to force penalties. Almunia was then Arsenal's hero as another brave Blades cup campaign came to a losing end. Kenny, Geary, Morgan, Bromby, Harley, Liddell, Montgomery, Jagielka, Thirlwell, Tonge (Quinn 97), Gray. Subs Not Used: Francis, Kabba, Shaw, Haystead. Morgan. Almunia, Lauren, Cygan, Senderos, Cole, Fabregas (Toure 90), Vieira, Flamini (Aliadiere 113), Clichy, Lupoli (Owusu-Abeyie 45), Ljungberg. Subs Not Used: Eboue, Taylor. Clichy, Lauren, Senderos. 27,595 P Dowd (Staffordshire).
Ajax refuse to rule out Jol move Ajax have refused to reveal whether Tottenham's boss Martin Jol is on the Dutch champions' shortlist to become the Amsterdam club's new coach. Jol, who has coached in his native Holland, has guided Spurs to the Premiership's top eight. An Ajax spokesman told BBC Sport: "The coach must fit our profile - a coach who understands the Dutch league and offensive and distinctive football. "We need to find a solution soon, so someone is in place for next season." Ronald Koeman quit as Ajax boss last week after their exit from the Uefa Cup. Jol has been linked with the vacant post at Ajax, with reports saying he has fallen out with Spurs' sporting director Frank Arnesen. But in a statement on Spurs' website, Jol said: "I'm happy here, I'm not in discussion with anyone else, I don't want to go elsewhere." Ajax have enlisted the help of Dutch legend Johann Cruyff, currently a consultant at Barcelona, to help find a new head coach. Cruyff has admitted he has been impressed by the way former RFC Waalwijk coach Jol has turned round Spurs' fortunes since taking over from Jacques Santini. Tonny Bruins Slot and Ruud Krol are currently in charge of Ajax, who are third in the Dutch league.
Unclear future for striker Baros Liverpool forward Milan Baros is uncertain whether he remains part of boss Rafa Benitez's plans after being dropped for the Carling Cup final. Baros, who is Liverpool's leading scorer this season, denied reports of a row with Benitez but claims he is mystified at being left on the bench. He told Czech newspaper Daily Sport: "I don't know why I didn't play on Sunday. I didn't argue with anybody. "I was disappointed but I am not thinking of leaving right now." The Czech international came on as a substitute after 74 minutes but could not prevent his side losing 3-2 to Chelsea after extra-time. Baros denied suggestions he wanted to leave the Millennium Stadium before the match upon learning of his omission from the starting line-up. But his admission that he "guessed something like this was going to happen on Saturday", will do little to quell claims of a falling-out with Benitez. And although Baros insisted thoughts of quitting Anfield are "not in my mind right now", he admitted "everything is possible".
Prutton poised for lengthy FA ban Southampton's David Prutton faces a possible seven-match ban when he goes before the Football Association. The 23-year-old has admitted two charges of improper conduct following his dismissal against Arsenal. The first charge relates to his failure to leave the field promptly, pushing referee Alan Wiley and remonstrating with assistant referee Paul Norman. And the second charge is for using threatening words and/or behaviour to a match official during the 1-1 draw. Paolo di Canio was given a seven-match suspension when he pushed referee Paul Alcock over in a Premiership game between Sheffield Wednesday and Arsenal in 1998. Prutton will be joined at Wednesday's hearing by Saints boss Harry Redknapp, who believes that the FA will throw the book at his player. Redknapp himself sprinted along the touchline to help physio Jim Joyce and coach Denis Rofe shepherd the enraged Prutton away from referee's assistant Norman. "David has made a big mistake and he knows it. I can't condone what he's done. He was out of order but he knows that," said Redknapp. "He's a decent lad. He over-reacted badly for some reason - he had a rush of blood from somewhere. Off the pitch you couldn't meet a nicer lad." Prutton has apologised publicly for his actions and to Arsenal's Robert Pires, who was injured in a wild tackle by the Saints' midfield man. He said: "It's an horrendous situation. I apologise to the ref and linesman, who were only doing their job. "I've also seen what happened to Pires' leg and I'm sorry for that as well." "I apologise for the people who saw it. I know you get lots of kids going to the match now and they don't pay money to see that sort of thing. "It's not a cop-out, but it was all a bit of a blur. Sometimes you react and it's beyond your control, " added Prutton.
Robben plays down European return Injured Chelsea winger Arjen Robben has insisted that he only has a 10% chance of making a return against Barcelona in the Champions League. The 21-year-old has been sidelined since breaking a foot against Blackburn last month. Chelsea face Barcelona at home on 8 March having lost 2-1 in the first leg. And Robben told the Daily Star: "It is not impossible that I will play against Barcelona but it is just a very, very small chance - about 10%." Robben has been an inspirational player for Chelsea this season following a switch from PSV Einhoven last summer. He added: "My recovery is going better than we expected a few weeks ago but I think the Barcelona game will come too soon. "I won't take any risks and come back too soon."
Adriano's Chelsea link rejected Adriano's agent Gilmar Rinaldi has insisted that he has had no contact with Chelsea over the striker. Chelsea were reported to have made inquiries about Inter Milan's 22-year-old Brazilian star. Rinaldi told BBC Sport from Rio de Janeiro: "I can assure you that Chelsea have had no dealings whatsoever with either me or Adriano. "Parma and Real Madrid are interested but there's nothing new there. Their interest has been known for some time." Adriano has scored 14 goals in 20 Serie A appearances this season. And Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho had claimed that he was in Milan talking to Adriano on the day he is alleged to have held a clandestine meeting with Arsenal defender Ashley Cole. Mourinho said he was "just practising my Portuguese with him because I don't need strikers". Rinaldi told BBC Sport: "I have to say that nobody from Chelsea or any other London club has contacted me. "If they want to, that's fine. I can tell them what the situation is. "If Chelsea are interested then they must make an offer." Inter are reported to have slapped a price tag in the region of £40m on the head of Adriano, who joined them just over a year ago from Parma. Real Madrid view him as a natural replacement for compatriot Ronaldo. But Rinaldi said: "I cannot give you a price that Inter would accept for Adriano. That's something that would have to be negotiated between the interested clubs."
FA decides not to punish Mourinho The Football Association will take no action against Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho following his sending-off in Sunday's Carling Cup final. Mourinho, who was sent from the touchline for appearing to taunt Liverpool fans, has been "reminded of his responsibilities to the game". But the FA confirmed: "There will be no further action taken in this matter." Mourinho claimed his 'silence' gesture was aimed at the media, although they were on the other side of the ground. The former Porto coach was forced to watch the climax of his side's 3-2 victory over Liverpool on television after being ushered away from the touchline by fourth official Phil Crossley. His gesture came after Chelsea's equaliser on 79 minutes courtesy of a Steven Gerrard own goal. Mourinho still faces an FA investigation into his allegation that Manchester United's players 'cheated' during January's Carling Cup semi-final at Stamford Bridge. And Uefa could also launch disciplinary action following Mourinho's failure to attend a compulsory post-match press conference after Chelsea's Champions League defeat at Barcelona last week. In addition, some time this month, Chelsea must also answer a charge of failing to control their players during the Premiership win at Blackburn in February. And a charge of failing to control their supporters following a Carling Cup meeting with West Ham earlier this season is still to be heard. The Premier League is also continuing investigations into allegations Chelsea officials tapped up Arsenal defender Ashley Cole in January.
Aragones angered by racism fine Spain coach Luis Aragones is furious after being fined by The Spanish Football Federation for his comments about Thierry Henry. The 66-year-old criticised his 3000 euros (£2,060) punishment even though it was far below the maximum penalty. "I am not guilty, nor do I accept being judged for actions against the image of the sport," he said. "I'm not a racist and I've never lacked sporting decorum. I've never done that and I have medals for sporting merit." Aragones was handed the fine on Tuesday after making racist remarks about Henry to Arsenal team-mate and Spanish international Jose Reyes last October. The Spanish Football Federation at first declined to take action against Aragones, but was then requested to do so by Spain's anti-violence commission. The fine was far less than the expected amount of about £22,000 or even the suspension of his coaching licence. Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger, who was fined £15,000 in December for accusing Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy of cheating, believes that Aragones' punishment was too lenient. "You compare his fine and my fine, and if you consider his was for racist abuse, then you seem to get away with it more in Spain than you should," Wenger said. "He shouldn't have said what he said, and how much money is enough, I don't know but it doesn't look a big punishment." However, Aragones insists the fine is unjustified and unfair. "I have been treated like Islero (the bull that killed famous bullfighter Manolete)," said Aragones on hearing he had been fined for his actions. "I have not liked one thing about this whole affair and I do not agree with the sanction. They have looked for a scapegoat." Spain's anti-violence commission must now ratify the Spanish FA's decision and has until next week to announce its verdict. Aragones has 10 days to appeal, and the commission can also appeal. Alberto Flores, president of the Spanish FA's disciplinary committee, said no-one in the committee felt Aragones was a racist nor had "acted in a racist way." "A fine, the highest we could apply, is sufficient punishment. Suspension would have been a bit exaggerated," Flores told sports daily Marca.
Boro suffer Morrison injury blow Middlesbrough midfielder James Morrison has been ruled out for up to eight weeks after an operation on Tuesday. The 18-year-old, who has played in 13 of the club's last 14 games, had surgery to repair a double hernia. A club spokesman confirmed: "It is a bilateral sportsman's hernia, which was operated on yesterday." Morrison was sent for scans after being substituted at half-time during Boro's 2-1 UEFA Cup win over Graz AK in which he scored the equaliser. His injury is the latest blow for the Teessiders, who have been without Gaizka Mendieta, George Boateng and Mark Viduka for extended periods. Meanwhile, the kick-off time for Boro's Uefa Cup match at Sporting Lisbon on 17 March has been brought forward from 2115 GMT to 1945 GMT.
Mourinho receives Robson warning Sir Bobby Robson has offered Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho some advice on coping under pressure. The pair worked together at Barcelona and Porto and Robson had a word of warning for his protege. "It has all gone for him just lately and that is marvellous, but sometimes you have to have a bit of humility and learn how to lose," said Robson. "It is when it goes against you and you get a bit of bad luck that you learn, and he'll get it straight." Robson was speaking after being formally granted the freedom of the city of Newcastle. "Jose is doing very well at the moment," Robson added of the man who worked for him for six years. "He has got one pot - possibly two to follow - a big game against Barcelona to come and I cannot see them losing their lead in the Premiership. "They are in a good position and I would expect them to go on and win it, which is a wonderful achievement. "What has occurred over the last couple of weeks will stand him in very good stead for the future. If he is intelligent, he will take it on board - and he is very intelligent. "He will have learned more in the last fortnight than the last eight months. Before that, it was all about winning." Robson also admitted he would relish the chance to get back into management and test his skills against Mourinho. "I am not in a hurry to take the wrong job, but I am ready to take the right job and I feel there is another job in me," he added. "I know the area I am capable of working in and of course I would like a job in the Premiership if one was available. "It would not worry me if I had to pit my wits against Jose. "But it is not just a case of him and me against one another. It would be his team against my team - but I would not be afraid of that."
QPR keeper Day heads for Preston Queens Park Rangers keeper Chris Day is set to join Preston on a month's loan. Day has been displaced by the arrival of Simon Royce, who is in his second month on loan from Charlton. QPR have also signed Italian Generoso Rossi. R's manager Ian Holloway said: "Some might say it's a risk as he can't be recalled during that month and Simon Royce can now be recalled by Charlton. "But I have other irons in the fire. I have had a 'yes' from a couple of others should I need them." Day's Rangers contract expires in the summer. Meanwhile, Holloway is hoping to complete the signing of Middlesbrough defender Andy Davies - either permanently or again on loan - before Saturday's match at Ipswich. Davies impressed during a recent loan spell at Loftus Road. Holloway is also chasing Bristol City midfielder Tom Doherty.
Cudicini misses Carling Cup final Chelsea goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini will miss Sunday's Carling Cup final after the club dropped their appeal against his red card against Newcastle. The Italian was sent off for bringing down Shola Ameobi in the final minute of Sunday's match. Blues boss Jose Mourinho had promised to pick Cudicini for the final instead of first-choice keeper Petr Cech. The 31-year-old will now serve a one-match suspension commencing with immediate effect. Cudicini kept a club record 24 clean sheets last season for Chelsea, but Petr Cech has established himself as first choice for Mourinho since moving to Stamford Bridge in summer 2004. The 22-year-old Czech Republic international has set a new Premiership record of 961 consecutive minutes without conceding a goal, a mark which is still running. But Mourinho has used Cudicini regularly in the Carling Cup, and the Italian has only let in one goal in his four appearances during Chelsea's run to the final.
Beattie return calms attack fears Everton striker James Beattie has been declared fit for training on Tuesday, despite suffering an alleged assault last Saturday. Beattie, 27, is not believed to be as seriously hurt as some reports have suggested after being "the victim of an unprovoked assault" in Birmingham. He was on a night out with his girlfriend and two friends following Everton's 3-1 win over Aston Villa. "He was shaken but not badly injured," said Everton spokesman Ian Ross. He added: "He did speak to the police but will not be pressing charges. "He has spoken to manager David Moyes about what happened." Beattie was suspended for the win at Aston Villa after his red card against Chelsea and he will be available again for the Merseyside derby at Liverpool on 20 March.
Keegan hails comeback king Fowler Manchester City boss Kevin Keegan has praised striker Robbie Fowler for his landmark return to form. The 29-year-old, out of favour at City earlier this season, took his Premiership goal tally past 150 with a brace in Monday's 3-2 win at Norwich. "He is still a quality player and knows where the net is - we have just got to supply him with ammunition and, in the end, we did," Keegan said. "He has worked hard to get back to where he is now." The former Liverpool striker, who moved to City in 2003 after a poor stint at Leeds, has battled back into first-team contention after struggling with fitness at the start of the season. Fowler overtook Les Ferdinand on Tuesday evening to become the third highest scorer of all time in the Premiership, with 151 goals, and he only trails Alan Shearer (250) and Andy Cole (173). And Keegan believes there is still more to come from the former England forward. "He can get better if we can supply him better," added Keegan. "People want to write him off but if he has kept the articles of those people who have written him off he could throw them back at them and they would be left with a bit of egg on their face." Fowler's double strike helped City come back from two goals down to clinch a dramatic win at Carrow Road and Keegan sympathised with Norwich boss Nigel Worthington afterwards. "I feel a bit for Nigel Worthington," he said. "His team have got great character, they have a lot of drive and enthusiasm. "I know it is a killer blow for Norwich but I really think they have brought something to the Premiership. "The stadium and the atmosphere is great, it is just a tough league to stay in - as they are finding out and as we know."
Thompson says Gerrard should stay Liverpool legend Phil Thompson has pleaded with Steve Gerrard to reject any overtures from Chelsea. The ex-Reds assistant boss also warned that any honours won at Chelsea would be cheapened by the bid to buy success. He told BBC Radio Five Live: "Liverpool would think about any bid made but it will all be down to Steve in the end. "But it wouldn't have that same sweet feeling at Chelsea, where it's all money-orientated and about simply buying the best." Thompson reacted sharply to some Liverpool supporters, who criticised Gerrard's performance in the Carling Cup final against Chelsea. A number of fans questioned Gerrard's commitment and sarcastically branded his own goal in Liverpool's 3-2 defeat as his first goal for Chelsea. Thompson added: "I heard those comments from so-called supporters and they were diabolical, absolutely outrageous. "Stevie carried the club last year and this year. He's always put Liverpool first." Thompson, who savoured seven title-winning seasons and two European Cup triumphs during his Anfield playing career, is confident that the lure of Champions League football will keep Gerrard at Anfield. "I hope Champions League football will beckon for Liverpool - either as winners or as finishing fourth in the Premiership - and he will commit himself. "There has been a lot of soul-searching the way things have gone lately. "I hope he's hardening to the fact he will have big decisions to make but I hope it is to the benefit of Steven Gerrard and I hope it is worthwhile for Liverpool."
Cole refuses to blame van Persie Ashley Cole has refused to blame Robin van Persie for leaving Arsenal with no fully-fit strikers for the FA Cup fifth round replay at Sheffield United. Van Persie is suspended alongside Dennis Bergkamp and Jose Antonio Reyes after being sent off at Southampton when Arsenal had a numerical advantage. Thierry Henry is ruled out with an Achilles tendon injury but Cole said: "No-one is putting the blame on Robin. "It's just something that happens on the spur of the moment." Cole added: "I've done it before and I hope they didn't blame me for anything. "Of course he'll learn. I've been sent off a couple of times now and it's just one of those things when you go a bit crazy for one or two seconds. Freddie Ljungberg is likely to be used in an emergency striking role and will be partnered by either Arturo Lupoli, Quincy Owusu-Abeyie or Jeremie Aliadiere. Gunners boss Arsene Wenger said: "Freddie is an option but we need a second striker. "I have to decide whether it will be Aliadiere, Quincy or Lupoli who will start with him up front. Those three will be involved." Arsenal are also without winger Robert Pires, who sustained an ankle injury at St Mary's. Wenger added: "It doesn't look like anything is fractured, but it is a good ankle sprain. "It does not look like Pires will be ready for two to three weeks."
Blackburn v Burnley Ewood Park Tuesday, 1 March 2000 GMT Howard Webb (South Yorkshire) home to Leicester in the quarter-finals But defender Andy Todd is suspended and could be replaced by Dominic Matteo - if he recovers from a hamstring injury. Burnley have major injury concerns over Frank Sinclair and John McGreal. Michael Duff looks set to continue at right-back with John Oster in midfield and Micah Hyde is expected to recover from a knee injury. - Blackburn boss Mark Hughes: "Burnley are resolute and have individual talent but I fully expect us to progress. "I thought we were comfortable in the first game and never thought we were under pressure. "It's a competition we want to progress in and we are doing okay. If we beat Burnley, we have a home tie against another lower league club (Leicester)." - Burnley boss Steve Cotterill: "They will be fresh and we'll be tired. That is an honest opinion but our lads just might be able to get themselves up for one more big game. "The atmosphere at the last game was very hot - a good verbal contest. "Our fans will not need whipping up for this game. I just want them to help us as much as they can in a positive way." KEY MATCH STATS - BLACKBURN ROVERS against Bolton is part two of an East Lancashire hotpot that didn't turn out to be that spicy when first staged on a Sunday lunchtime the weekend before last, and resulted in a scrappy goalless draw. - Rovers, who are aiming to win the Cup for a seventh time in their history and first time in 77 years, face another replay against Championship opposition after eventually disposing of Cardiff at Ewood Park in the third round. But they've not been beaten in the competition by a club outside the Premiership for nine years, since Ipswich - then in the second tier - defeated them 0-1 after extra time in a third round replay at Ewood Park on 16 January 1996. History is on Rovers side. When they last met their near neighbours in the FA Cup 45 years ago, it also required an Ewood Park replay, which the home side won 2-0, and when they last met in the League, Rovers did the double. They first won their Nationwide Division One trip to Turf Moor 0-2 four seasons ago, and then thrashed the Clarets on home soil 5-0. - Manager Mark Hughes, who won the Cup four times as a player, is aiming to steer Rovers into the quarter-finals for the second time in 12 years, and first time since the 2000/2001 season. Success here, and victory home to Leicester in the next round, could see Rovers in the semi-finals without having played Premiership opposition. - BURNLEY make the eight mile journey to their fierce rivals, determined to send Blackburn the same way as Liverpool in the third round. But having failed to pull off another shock at Turf Moor, it could be that the Championship outfit - 17 places inferior on the League ladder - have missed their best opportunity. Having said that, Burnley are yet to concede a goal in this Cup run. - Steve Cotterills' Clarets have been knocked out in the fifth round four times in the last seven years, and have made only one appearance in the sixth round in 21 years. That was in the season before last, when they disposed of Premiership Fulham at this fifth round stage. - While Blackburn have not played since the fifth round tie, Burnley have had two League outings away from home, drawing 1-1 at Derby and losing 1-0 at Preston. That takes their winless run to four games. The combatants from one-time prosperous mill towns, are both founder members of the Football League. HEAD TO HEAD 16th PREM WINNERS (six times) 13th Championship WINNERS (once)
Brentford v Southampton Griffin Park Tuesday, 1 March 1945 GMT Barry Knight (Kent) home to Manchester United in the quarter-finals Midfielder Andrew Frampton and striker Deon Burton are both slight doubts with hamstring injuries, but should be fit Saints are missing their entire first-choice midfield of Jamie Redknapp, Graeme Le Saux, Nigel Quashie and David Prutton. Anders Svensson and Matt Oakley are likely replacements with Kevin Phillips also scheduled to start, with Henri Camara rested. - Brentford boss Martin Allen: "After conceding eight goals in our last three matches, I have to admit I'm not very confident. "There's no doubt we're the underdogs and after defending so poorly recently it's not looking good. "Southampton have just drawn with the Premiership champions and that makes our task harder than it was already." - Southampton boss Harry Redknapp: "We know they can give us problems. "Brentford have done well but we are the Premiership side and should have the better players. "Staying in the Premiership is our priority. We want to win, of course we do. We'll battle but if it comes to a football match I think we'll win." KEY MATCH STATS - BRENTFORD are the lowest ranked club left in the FA Cup. They're on their best run in the competition since reaching the quarter-finals for the fourth time in their history 16 years ago. Now they have the carrot of the plum draw in the last eight dangling before them. Victory over Premiership strugglers Southampton, would bring the mighty Manchester United to Griffin Park and a gigantic pay day for the sole League One survivors. - Martin Allen's brave side came back from two goals down at St Mary's to earn a deserved replay. Southampton striker Henri Camara scored twice from close range to put the Saints in command, but Isaiah Rankin hit back just before half time, and Sam Sodje headed past a creaky defence on 58 minutes. - The Londoners have conceded six goals in their two subsequent League outings - three each in losing away to Hartlepool and drawing at home to Sheffield Wednesday. But they haven't lost in six League and Cup games on home turf - winning three and drawing three since the reverse to Torquay on Boxing Day. - SOUTHAMPTON go into this tie on the back of an eventful Premiership match with Arsenal on Saturday. An angry David Prutton pushed referee Alan Wiley after being shown the red card, but his side still came back to draw 1-1. It was Saints' fourth stalemate in succession in all competitions, but didn't lift them out of the relegation zone. The retention of their ever present Premier League status must be the number one priority, irrespective of the rewards that success against Brentford would bring. - Victory here would set up a repeat of the 1976 final, when Saints astounded the football world by defeating Tommy Docherty's Manchester United courtesy of Bobby Stokes' famous winner. They also knocked out the Red Devils in 1991 on penalties in the fourth round. But to write another chapter in their FA Cup history, the Solent side must avoid succumbing to lower division opposition for the first time since Rotherham, from the second level, beat them 2-1 in a third round tie at Millmoor on 16 January 2002. Southampton were last humbled by a club from the third tier six years ago. Fulham were then in the Second Division, when they won a third round replay at Craven Cottage 1-0 on 13 January 1999. - To get to within two matches of a second visit to the Millennium Stadium in three years for the final, Harry Redknapp must guide his side past a club 36 places inferior on the League ladder, and a manager 19 years his junior, who played under him at West Ham. HEAD TO HEAD 10th League One QUARTER-FINALS (four times) 18th PREM WINNERS (once)
Desailly backs Blues revenge trip Marcel Desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when Chelsea take on Barcelona on Wednesday. The French star was part of the Chelsea side crushed 5-1 at the Nou Camp in the Champions League quarter-final second leg in 2000. "Things will be totally different this time," he told BBC Sport. "Now everyone knows about Chelsea and is a little bit afraid of them. They are one of the major clubs in Europe and the pressure will be on Barcelona." Chelsea have not played Barcelona since that quarter-final tie five years ago. The Blues had looked destined to progress after winning the first leg at Stamford Bridge 3-1, courtesy of two goals from Tore Andre Flo and one by Gianfranco Zola. But they collapsed in the second leg, going down to strikes from Rivaldo (2), Luis Figo, Dani and Patrick Kluivert. Former Chelsea captain Desailly, who is now playing for Al-Gharafa in Qatar, says there is no comparison between that side and the current Blues team, who are top of the Premiership. "Mentally they are much stronger, even though a lot of their players are young," the 36-year-old said. "We made some mistakes at the Nou Camp in 2000 - a lot of them were individual mistakes. "It would not happen now. This team has a new motivation and a different mentality." World Cup winner Desailly saw huge changes during his time at Stamford Bridge. He was signed for £4.6m from AC Milan in 1998 by Ruud Gullit and went on to play under Gianluca Vialli and Claudio Ranieri. But the biggest change occurred when billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the club in 2003. Desailly says the Russian's arrival helped to instil a winning mentality at the club as well as a demand for success. "The whole of Chelsea is different now - the chairman, the manager and all the players," he said. "Everything is new and there is a huge determination to win. "Since that game in 2000, Chelsea have gained more experience in Europe and were very close to reaching the Champions League final last season." Desailly is one of the most decorated players in the history of football. He won the 1998 World Cup and 2000 European Championship with France, the Champions League in 1993 with Marseilles and 1994 with AC Milan, two Serie A titles and the FA Cup in 2000 with Chelsea. He is now winding down his career in Qatar, alongside the likes of Frank Lebeouf, Josep Guardiola, Titi Camara, Gabriel Batistuta and Christophe Dugarry. So he is full of admiration for two of his colleagues from the great Milan side of the mid-90s who are likely to line up against Manchester United on Wednesday - Paolo Maldini and Alessandro Costacurta. "I'm happy that they have managed to play so long at a high level," he said. "I made a vow to Costacurta that as long as he plays, I will continue to play. "And it's amazing that Paolo has managed to play at such a high level for such a long time."
Desailly backs Blues revenge trip Marcel Desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when Chelsea take on Barcelona on Wednesday. The French star was part of the Chelsea side crushed 5-1 at the Nou Camp in the Champions League quarter-final second leg in 2000. "Things will be totally different this time," he told BBC Sport. "Now everyone knows about Chelsea and is a little bit afraid of them. They are one of the major clubs in Europe and the pressure will be on Barcelona." Chelsea have not played Barcelona since that quarter-final tie five years ago. The Blues had looked destined to progress after winning the first leg at Stamford Bridge 3-1, courtesy of two goals from Tore Andre Flo and one by Gianfranco Zola. But they collapsed in the second leg, going down to strikes from Rivaldo (2), Luis Figo, Dani and Patrick Kluivert. Former Chelsea captain Desailly, who is now playing for Al-Gharafa in Qatar, says there is no comparison between that side and the current Blues team, who are top of the Premiership. "Mentally they are much stronger, even though a lot of their players are young," the 36-year-old said. "We made some mistakes at the Nou Camp in 2000 - a lot of them were individual mistakes. "It would not happen now. This team has a new motivation and a different mentality." World Cup winner Desailly saw huge changes during his time at Stamford Bridge. He was signed for £4.6m from AC Milan in 1998 by Ruud Gullit and went on to play under Gianluca Vialli and Claudio Ranieri. But the biggest change occurred when billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the club in 2003. Desailly says the Russian's arrival helped to instil a winning mentality at the club as well as a demand for success. "The whole of Chelsea is different now - the chairman, the manager and all the players," he said. "Everything is new and there is a huge determination to win. "Since that game in 2000, Chelsea have gained more experience in Europe and were very close to reaching the Champions League final last season." Desailly is one of the most decorated players in the history of football. He won the 1998 World Cup and 2000 European Championship with France, the Champions League in 1993 with Marseilles and 1994 with AC Milan, two Serie A titles and the FA Cup in 2000 with Chelsea. He is now winding down his career in Qatar, alongside the likes of Frank Lebeouf, Josep Guardiola, Titi Camara, Gabriel Batistuta and Christophe Dugarry. So he is full of admiration for two of his colleagues from the great Milan side of the mid-90s who are likely to line up against Manchester United on Wednesday - Paolo Maldini and Alessandro Costacurta. "I'm happy that they have managed to play so long at a high level," he said. "I made a vow to Costacurta that as long as he plays, I will continue to play. "And it's amazing that Paolo has managed to play at such a high level for such a long time."
Mourinho expects fight to finish Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho expects the Champions League clash with Barcelona to be a fight to the finish. Mourinho is relishing the first leg of the tie against his former club in the last 16 in the Nou Camp. He said: "I wouldn't be surprised if nothing had been decided by the last minute of the return leg and the match had to go into extra time. "I have to defend what is mine and the Champions League is mine at the moment. I'm the last manager to have won it." Mourinho never coached Barcelona, assisting both Sir Bobby Robson and Louis van Gaal. But he is not envious, insisting: "I don't have to be jealous about Barcelona because they have 100 years of history and have won the European Cup once. "I have been managing for five years and I have the same amount of Champions League trophies to my name." Barcelona star Ronaldinho admitted: "I think that it is going to be a difficult match for us because Chelsea have a good team full of big stars. "I have seen Chelsea a few times on television, tactically they are very good and they are very strong on the counter-attack. "They pressure very well and keep possession of the ball so it will be important that we play our own game. "I believe they are the two strongest teams in Europe. Nevertheless, Barcelona are accustomed to playing big games at the Nou Camp, where they have to face the likes of Real Madrid each season. "It is a special game, the atmosphere in the city changes, there are lots of journalists but inside the dressing room there is not a lot of difference," Ronaldinho added. "We are only thinking of winning the match with all respect to the opposition."
Cup holders Man Utd visit Everton Holders Manchester United and Premiership leaders Chelsea both face difficult away ties against Premiership opposition in the FA Cup fifth round. United were drawn against Everton, while Chelsea face a trip to Newcastle. Brentford and Hartlepool - the only sides left from outside the top two divisions - will replay for the right to travel to Southampton. Burnley's reward for a place in the last 16 was a home tie against Lancashire rivals Blackburn. The tie between Manchester United and Everton could see the return of teenage striker Wayne Rooney to his former club for the first time since his acrimonious £27m move. Nottingham Forest boss Gary Megson could face a trip back to old club West Brom if they come through their fourth-round replay against Tottenham. Arsenal were handed a potential home tie against fellow Londoners West Ham, providing the Hammers come through their replay against Sheffield United. Charlton will play Leicester and Bolton await the winners of the Derby-Fulham replay. : Bolton v Derby or Fulham West Bromwich Albion or Tottenham v Nottingham Forest Everton v Manchester United Charlton Athletic v Leicester City Burnley v Blackburn Southampton v Brentford or Hartlepool Newcastle v Chelsea Arsenal v West Ham or Sheffield United Ties to be played on 19/20 February.
Candela completes Bolton switch Bolton boss Sam Allardyce has signed Roma defender Vincent Candela on a five-month deal. The 31-year-old former France international gave his last press conference as a Roma player on Monday, anouncing his move to Bolton. "I have signed a five-month contract with Bolton," said Candela, who will travel to England on Tuesday. "In June I will decide whether to continue to play for Bolton or retire from professional football." Allardyce hopes Candela's arrival will relieve Bolton's injury crisis after defender Nicky Hunt limped out injured during Oldham's 1-0 win against Oldham in the FA Cup on Sunday. "In light of what has happened to Nicky Hunt, with his injury, it might be a blessing in disguise that we can bring in a highly-experienced full-back to help with our injuries at the back," Allardyce said. "He has an outstanding pedigree in the game and has won honours at the highest level including the World Cup in 1998. "He has not played regular football this year but is eager to impress in the Premiership. "He can play in any position at the back and despite him being predominately right-footed he has played the majority of his career at left-back." Candela, who was a member of the Roma side that won the title in 2001, has made only seven league appearances this season for Luigi del Neri's side.
Stuart joins Norwich from Addicks Norwich have signed Charlton midfielder Graham Stuart until the end of the season for an undisclosed fee. "It was a very easy decision to make," the 34-year-old told Norwich's website. "The attraction for me was to continue to play in the Premiership." Canaries boss Nigel Worthington added: "I'm delighted that Graham will be joining us until the end of the season. "He's gives us a wealth of experience. Hopefully, he can be part of keeping us in the Premier League." Stuart has extensive top-flight experience with Everton, Chelsea and Charlton and can play across the midfield positions. He joins Norwich with the Norfolk club second-from-bottom in the Premiership, but Stuart is confident that the Carrow Road outfit have a bright future. "I've been very impressed with the facilities here. It's obviously a very well run football club with excellent facilities and I've always enjoyed playing at Carrow Road," he added. "It's a nice compact ground with a good atmosphere and hopefully I can help give the fans something else to cheer." Stuart, a former England Under-21 international, made 110 appearances for Chelsea, scoring 18 goals, before joining Everton. He won the FA Cup with the Toffees in 1995 and remains a hero at Goodison Park after his 81st-minute winner against Wimbledon saved Everton from relegation in 1994. Stuart spent just over four years at Goodison Park, making 125 senior appearances and scoring 25 goals, before signing for Sheffield United - where he scored 12 goals in 68 appearances. After signing for Charlton he made 164 appearances, scoring 23 times, but recently he has been battling a back problem and had not played for the Londoners for three months before heading to Norwich.
Celtic make late bid for Bellamy Newcastle striker Craig Bellamy is discussing a possible short-term loan move to Celtic, BBC Sport understands. The Welsh striker has rejected a move to Birmingham after falling out with Magpies manager Graeme Souness. The Toon boss vowed Bellamy would not play again after a bitter row over his exclusion for the game against Arsenal. Celtic are in no position to match Birmingham's £6m offer but a stay until the end of the season could suit Bellamy while he considers his future. According to Bellamy's agent, the player dismissed a permanent move to Birmingham. And it is unlikely that Newcastle would allow the player to go on loan to another Premiership club. Bellamy was fined two weeks' wages after a live TV interview in which he accused Souness of lying, following a very public dispute about what position Bellamy should play in the side. Souness said: "He can't play for me ever again. He has been a disruptive influence from the minute I walked into this football club. "He can't go on television and accuse me of telling lies." Chairman Freddy Shepherd described Bellamy's behaviour as "totally unacceptable and totally unprofessional".
Campbell lifts lid on United feud Arsenal's Sol Campbell has called the rivalry between Manchester United and the Gunners "bitter and personal". Past encounters have stirred up plenty of ill-feeling between the sides and they meet again at Highbury on Tuesday. "It is just more bitter and personal against United," the defender told The Guardian newspaper. "There's an edge. "After all that has happened, if we beat them it will be one of our sweetest ever wins, especially because of how we lost to them up there." Last October, Arsenal lost 2-0 at Old Trafford, which ended a record 49-match unbeaten league run and sparked a mini-crisis, with the Gunners winning only three of their next 10 games. "It had a psychological impact on us, but again because of the way we were defeated," added the 30-year-old, referring to a controversial penalty award for United's first goal. "That was far more upsetting, losing like that, because they just seem to get away with it. You try and balance out over the course of a season but I've had so many rough decisions against them you begin to wonder." With tensions spilling over afterwards - United boss Sir Alex Ferguson was allegedly pelted with pizza in the players' tunnel - there is little surprise that so much is riding on the return encounter on. "Everyone at Arsenal has been waiting for this game," said Campbell. "We are up for this one." Speaking on his long-term plans, Campbell signalled his intent to move abroad before he turns 35. "I'm 30 now and in five years' time I won't be in this country - that's definite. "Italy looks good to me because it would suit my kind of football. Spain is an option but the idea of tasting a new culture and learning another language excites me the most. I'm starting a little with French, of course."
Rovers reject third Ferguson bid Blackburn have rejected a third bid from Rangers for Scotland captain Barry Ferguson, BBC Sport has learnt. It is thought Blackburn want £6m for the midfielder but chief executive John Williams has confirmed the club are still "in dialogue" with Rangers. The 26-year-old has already handed in a transfer request at Ewood Park as he seeks a return to Ibrox. But the clubs have been unable to reach agreement over a fee for Ferguson, who moved to Lancashire in 2003 for £6.5m. On Thursday Rangers said they would not be increasing their offer of £4m. Blackburn have said all along that they want £6m for the midfielder and Williams has rejected proposals from Rangers over a player-swap deal. Williams said: "We are in dialogue with Glasgow Rangers but we have no agreement." The negotiations will have to be concluded by midnight on Monday, when the winter transfer window shuts. Williams conceded any deal for Ferguson was looking "unlikely" before the close of the transfer window but Rangers still had a chance to seal the deal. "We have no comment to make other than we have not got an agreement with Glasgow Rangers," he added. "The way things are looking, I think it is unlikely we are going to. "The ball is in their court but we have not got an offer that is acceptable at this moment." It is understood that Blackburn accepted a £5m offer for Ferguson from Everton at the weekend. But the player is determined to return to Scotland and rejected a move to Goodison Park. Ferguson did not play in the FA Cup win over Colchester on Saturday despite recovering from a groin injury with Rovers boss Mark Hughes claiming it had been an "emotional and difficult time" for the player.
SA return to Mauritius Top seeds South Africa return to the scene of one of their most embarrassing failures when they face the Seychelles in the Cosafa Cup next month. Last year Bafana Bafana were humbled in the first by minnows Mauritius who beat them 2-0 in Curepipe. Coach Stuart Baxter and his squad will return to Curepipe face the Seychelles in their first game of the new-look regional competition. The format of the event has been changed this year after the entry of the Seychelles, who have taken the number of participants to 13. The teams are now divided into three group of four and play knock-out matches on successive days to determine the group champions. Mauritius host the first group, and their opponents are Madagascar, the Seychelles and South Africa. Bafana Bafana play the Seychelles before Mauritius take on Madagascar in a double-header on 26 February. The two winners return to the New George V stadium the next day and the victor of the group decider advances to August's final mini-tournament. The second group will be hosted in Namibia in April. It comprises Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique and the hosts. In June, former champions Zambia will host Lesotho, Malawi and Swaziland in the third group in Lusaka. The three group winners will then join title holders Angola for the last of the mini-tournaments in August, where the winners will be crowned. Seychelles v South Africa Mauritius v Madagascar Winners meet in final match Mozambique v Zimbabwe Namibia v Botswana Winners meet in final match Lesotho v Malawi Zambia v Swaziland Winners meet in final match
Tottenham bid &#163;8m for Forest duo Nottingham Forest have confirmed they have received an £8m bid from Tottenham for Andy Reid and Michael Dawson. Reid rejected a move to Southampton after Forest accepted a cash-plus-players offer while Spurs had made previous bids for the 22-year-old. Spurs had also made an undisclosed offer for 21-year-old defender Dawson. Forest chief executive Mark Arthur said: "We've received an £8m bid from Spurs for the two players and we're considering the offer." Southampton's offer for Republic of Ireland international Reid comprised £3m-plus and two players - Brett Ormerod and Darren Kenton. Spurs had seen previous bids of £3m, £4m and £5m for Reid rejected by the Championship club.
Redknapp's Saints face Pompey tie New Southampton manager Harry Redknapp faces an immediate reunion with his old club Portsmouth after they were drawn together in the FA Cup fourth round. Exeter City face a home tie against Middlesbrough if they can see off holders Manchester United in a replay. Oldham's reward for beating Manchester City is a home tie with Bolton, while Yeovil will be away to Charlton. Chelsea host Birmingham, Tottenham travel to West Brom and Arsenal will entertain Championship side Wolves. Saints boss Redknapp was upbeat about the draw despite having to face the club he walked out on just six weeks ago. "I've said before, I can walk away from Portsmouth with my head held high, I'm proud of what I did there and no one can take that away from me," said Redknapp. "Maybe I'll be in for some stick, there's always some of that but we'll get on with it and it's only a game of football." Birmingham manager Steve Bruce admitted their trip to Stamford Bridge to face Premiership leaders Chelsea was the toughest draw possible. Bruce said: "I'm still in shock. We've given good accounts of ourselves against Chelsea in the past and played well when we lost 1-0 at home at the start of the season - but that's the past. "But it's the best competition in the world as far as I am concerned and we will give it our best shot." Brentford boss Martin Allen remained cautious despite his side's favourable draw - a home tie with either Hartlepool or Boston. "The best thing is, it's a home game. However, we know that whoever we play it is going to be a really tough game," said Allen. "But it's not about the opposition, it's about us. We all want to get through to the next round and face a massive team, that's the way it is." Meanwhile, the BBC has confirmed it will be televising Exeter's replay with Man Utd live on Wednesday 19 January, from 1930 on BBC One. Derby v Watford or Fulham Man Utd or Exeter v Middlesbrough Cardiff or Blackburn v Colchester Chelsea v Birmingham West Ham v Sheff Utd Oldham v Bolton Arsenal v Wolverhampton Everton v Sunderland Nottm Forest v Peterborough Brentford v Hartlepool or Boston Reading or Swansea v Leicester or Blackpool Burnley or Liverpool v Bournemouth Southampton v Portsmouth West Brom v Tottenham Newcastle v Coventry Charlton v Yeovil
Real in talks over Gravesen move Real Madrid are closing in on a £2m deal for Everton's Thomas Gravesen after the Dane's agent travelled to Spain to hold talks about a move. John Sivabaek told BBC Sport: "I'm here to listen to what Real have to say. Nothing has been agreed, but this is a big opportunity for any player." The 28-year-old's contract expires in the summer, but Real want a quick deal. Sivabaek added: "I will be meeting Real on Wednesday. There is serious interest, but it is Everton's hands." Everton must decide whether to cash in now on the Denmark midfield man, or risk losing him for nothing in the summer. Manager David Moyes has defiantly claimed that he expects Gravesen to still be at Everton when the transfer window closes at the end of January. Moyes said: "I speak to Tommy regularly and we know where we are at. "There's been no contact. We don't want to lose him." Real Madrid general manager Arrigo Sacchi is the driving force behind the move, convincing vice-president Emilio Butragueno and new coach Wanderley Luxemburgo that Gravesen is the right man for the Bernabeu. Everton must weigh up whether it is worth taking the money on offer for Real and risk their own ambitions for European football. Gravesen has been outstanding as Everton have established themselves in the Premiership's top four this season.
Klinsmann issues Lehmann warning Germany coach Jurgen Klinsmann has warned goalkeeper Jens Lehmann he may have to quit Arsenal to keep his World Cup dreams alive. Lehmann is understudy to Oliver Kahn in the German squad, but has lost his place to Manuel Alumnia at Highbury. Klinsmann said: "It will be difficult for any of our players if he is not a first-choice at his club. "If Jens is not Arsenal's number one keeper, that is a problem for me. He must be playing regularly." Lehmann is desperate to keep his place in the Germany squad when the country hosts the World Cup in 2006. Klinsmann added: "If he is not playing regularly he cannot be Germany's number one keeper, or even number two keeper. "The situation for Jens is that he is currently the number two keeper at Arsenal. This could be critical if it remains the same during next season."
Juninho demand for O'Neill talks Juninho's agent has confirmed that the player is hoping for talks with Martin O'Neill as the Brazilian midfielder comes closer to departing Celtic. Brian Hassell says no official approach has been received from Manchester City but that the English club had been earmarked as a possible destination. But it was being stressed to BBC Sport that Juninho would prefer to remain with the Scottish champions. Juninho wants assurances that he will return to O'Neill's first-team plans. He has become frustrated with his lack of first-team action since his move from Middlesbrough in the summer. Hassel says Juninho, who has just bought a new home, would "desperately like to stay at Celtic" but will seek a move if it is made clear that he is not wanted. The agent also stressed that nothing should be read into the 30-year-old's father being in Scotland and talk of a move back to Botafogo in Brazil. Juninho's father was simply in the country to see his son and grandchildren. "I know there is interest from a Brazilian club, but I know Juninho doesn't want to go there," said Hassel. "He wants to stay in Britain. In fact, he wants to stay at Celtic." Hassall made it clear that a move to Manchester City, who are badly in need of a midfield play-maker, was more of a possibility than Botafogo, or Mexican outfit Red Sharks Veracruz, who also expressed an interest. "It was a thought at one stage," he said. "If you are not going to get a game under one manager, you look for another whose style of play suits you. "He is a fan of Kevin Keegan's style of play. It would not be a bad move for him." Juninho had earlier told the Daily Record: "The manager has had a lot of chances to put me in his team but it hasn't happened. "If that is the case then this is the opportunity for me to go. That would be good for the club and good for me. "If I have no part in his plans, there is no point in remaining here waiting for a chance that never comes." The attacking midfielder also claims he has not had the backing of boss Martin O'Neill since his move to Celtic Park. "I can't understand why I am in this situation," he continued. "When a manager brings a new player to the club, he gives that player support."
Wenger signs new deal Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has signed a new contract to stay at the club until May 2008. Wenger has ended speculation about his future by agreeing a long-term contract that takes him beyond the opening of Arsenal's new stadium in two years. He said: "Signing a new contract just rubber-stamps my desire to take this club forward and fulfil my ambitions. "I still have so much to achieve and my target is to drive this club on. These are exciting times for Arsenal." The 55-year-old Frenchman told Arsenal's website www.arsenal.com: "My intention has always been clear. I love this club and am very happy here." Wenger has won the title and the FA Cup three times each during his reign. Chairman Peter Hill-Wood said: "We are absolutely delighted that Arsene has signed an extension to his contract. "Since his arrival in 1996, he has revolutionised the club both on and off the pitch. "As well as the six major honours he's won during his time here, Arsene has been a leading influence behind all the major initiatives at the club including the construction of our new training centre and also our new stadium. "The club has continued to reap the benefits of Arsene's natural eye for unearthing footballing talent. "We currently have a fantastic crop of young players coming through the ranks together with a number of world-class players who are playing a wonderful brand of football." Meanwhile, Arsenal director Danny Fiszman is looking for Wenger to stay beyond 2008. "When we come towards the end of his contract we will both review the situation. I'm sure we will want him to stay on and I hope he will too," said Fiszman.
FA probes crowd trouble The FA is to take action after trouble marred Wednesday's Carling Cup tie between Chelsea and West Ham. Police in riot gear were confronted by a section of the West Ham support after the match which the Blues won 1-0. Mateja Kezman, the scorer of Chelsea's goal, needed treatment on a head injury during the match after being hit by a missile, believed to be a coin. A spokeswoman for Chelsea said the club would await the referee's report before deciding on its course of action. Kezman was forced off the field to receive treatment on a cut above his eye but was able to continue. Chelsea assistant boss Steve Clarke said: "I would rather talk about the football but we think it was something thrown from the crowd. He did not require stitches." West Ham boss Alan Pardew said: "It's a shame because I thought there was good English banter in the crowd. "There's big rivalry between the two clubs and it is a shame if that's happened. From where I was standing I didn't see any trouble." Former Hammers star Joe Cole also had a plastic bottle thrown at him, while Frank Lampard was pelted with coins as he was preparing to take a penalty. Lampard's spot-kick was saved to the delight of the Hammers' fans, who have still not forgiven him for leaving Upton Park. The FA will seek reports from the clubs and the police, and will review video evidence and the referee's report. Police in riot gear battled with West Ham fans in the Matthew Harding stand and at least one supporter required treatment. Fans are also thought to have clashed outside the ground after the game. Scotland Yard said there had been 11 arrests for alleged public order, drugs and offensive weapon offences. The FA is already looking into the trouble at Tuesday's heated Carling Cup tie between Millwall and Liverpool.
Edu describes tunnel fracas Arsenal's Edu has lifted the lid on the scenes that followed Manchester United's win over the Gunners. The Brazilian confirmed tempers had flared but could shed no light on reports that food was thrown at United boss Sir Alex Ferguson. "I saw people being pulled apart, people pushing, pointing and shouting," he told Uefa's official website. "The United players were trying to wind us up about the result but I didn't see any soup being thrown at anyone." However, Edu tried to play down the incidents, adding: "There was nothing that I haven't seen in Brazilian derbies. "Derby matches in Brazil are worse. I like to play in games like this with this intense rivalry." But Edu was highly critical of the ferocity of some of United's challenges during the game, particularly on Jose Antonio Reyes. "I think we were a lot fairer in the tackles than United," he said. "Reyes was being kicked all over the park - they were beating up the boy and Gary Neville was tackling in such a way that he should have been sent off." Following the game, the Football Association said it would look into events in the tunnel. It also charged Ruud van Nistelrooy with serious foul play while Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has been asked to explain comments he made about the referee.
Chelsea sack Mutu Chelsea have sacked Adrian Mutu after he failed a drugs test. The 25-year-old tested positive for a banned substance - which he later denied was cocaine - in October. Chelsea have decided to write off a possible transfer fee for Mutu, a �15.8m signing from Parma last season, who may face a two-year suspension. A statement from Chelsea explaining the decision read:"We want to make clear that Chelsea has a zero tolerance policy towards drugs." Mutu scored six goals in his first five games after arriving at Stamford Bridge but his form went into decline and he was frozen out by coach Jose Mourinho. Chelsea's statement added: "This applies to both performance-enhancing drugs or so-called 'recreational' drugs. They have no place at our club or in sport. "In coming to a decision on this case, Chelsea believed the club's social responsibility to its fans, players, employees and other stakeholders in football regarding drugs was more important than the major financial considerations to the company. "Any player who takes drugs breaches his contract with the club as well as Football Association rules. "The club totally supports the FA in strong action on all drugs cases." Fifa's disciplinary code stipulates that a first doping offence should be followed by a six-month ban. And the sport's world governing body has re-iterated their stance over Mutu's failed drugs test, maintaining it is a matter for the domestic sporting authorities. "Fifa is not in a position to make any comment on the matter until the English FA have informed us of their disciplinary decision and the relevant information associated with it," said a Fifa spokesman. Chelsea's move won backing from drug-testing expert Michelle Verroken. Verroken, a former director of drug-free sport for UK Sport, insists the Blues were right to sack Mutu and have enhanced their reputation by doing so. "Chelsea are saying quite clearly to the rest of their players and their fans that this is a situation they are not prepared to tolerate. "It was a very difficult decision for them and an expensive decision for them but the terms of his contract were breached and it was the only decision they could make. "It is a very clear stance by Chelsea and it has given a strong boost to the reputation of the club." It emerged that Mutu had failed a drugs test on October 18 and, although it was initially reported that the banned substance in question was cocaine. The Romanian international later suggested it was a substance designed to enhance sexual performance. The Football Association has yet to act on Mutu's failed drugs test and refuses to discuss his case.
Ferguson urges Henry punishment Sir Alex Ferguson has called on the Football Association to punish Arsenal's Thierry Henry for an incident involving Gabriel Heinze. Ferguson believes Henry deliberately caught Heinze on the head with his knee during United's controversial win. The United boss said it was worse than Ruud van Nistelrooy's foul on Ashley Cole for which he got a three-game ban. "We shall present it to the FA and see what they do. The tackle on Heinze was terrible," he said. Clubs are permitted to ask the FA to examine specific incidents but information is expected to be provided within 48 hours of the game. The clash occurred moments before half-time when a Freddie Ljungberg challenge left Heinze on the ground on the left touchline. Henry, following the ball, attempted to hurdle the Argentine but his knee collided with the back of Heinze's head. The striker protested his innocence - and referee Mike Riley deemed the collision accidental. Ferguson was also upset by Arsenal's overall discipline during the heated encounter between the two arch-rivals and praised his own side's behaviour. "Edu produced a terrible tackle on Scholes that was a potential leg-breaker," he said. "There were 24 fouls in the game by Arsenal, seven on Heinze, five on Ronaldo, six by Vieira - and it was only his sixth foul that got him booked. Phil Neville got booked for his first challenge. "I am proud of my players for the way they handled that pressure. "We have always been good at being gracious in defeat. What happened on Sunday overshadowed our achievement, but then they do it all the time, don't they?"
Wenger offers Mutu hope Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger would consider signing Adrian Mutu once the striker has served his drugs ban. Mutu was sacked by Chelsea on Friday after testing positive for cocaine - a move Wenger has backed. But he said: "I don't even wonder if that could happen because I think he will be suspended for a long period. "But once he has served his suspension, he has the right again to start from zero. I would then meet the player and see what he tells me." Mutu faces a ban of between six months and two years when the Football Association decides on his punishment. Chelsea decided to act before his case was heard and sacked the striker on grounds of gross misconduct after it was revealed that he had failed a drug test. But Mutu has hit out at the club's decision, saying: "Chelsea have destroyed me." He told the Sunday Mirror: "I don't know what I'm going to do. I am shocked and surprised by their decision. "I didn't expect them to pay me while I was suspended but I never thought they would sack me either. "Why didn't they wait to do this? Now my career is in ruins. "I might as well walk away from football. What is there left for me?" Chelsea have been criticised for their stance, with the Professional Footballers' Association accusing the club of failing in their duty of care to the player. And Mutu agreed, adding: "It is unfair. If they were going to sack me they should have done it afterwards. "Why did they go public? To make an example of me? It makes it very difficult for me now."
Santini resigns as Spurs manager Tottenham manager Jacques Santini has resigned for "personal reasons". The former France manager moved to White Hart Lane this summer but now wants to return to France. Santini said: "My time at Tottenham has been memorable and it is with deep regret that I take my leave. I wish the club and the supporters all the best. "Private issues in my personal life have arisen which caused my decision. I very much hope that the wonderful fans will respect my decision." He added: "I should like to thank (sporting director) Frank Arnesen and (chairman) Daniel Levy for their understanding." Assistant coach Martin Jol has been put in temporary charge and will take care of team affairs for Saturday's Premiership match against Charlton. Arnesen said the club were sad to see Santini go: "We are obviously disappointed that Jacques is leaving us. We fully respect his decision. "I can assure you that the club will act swiftly to minimise the impact of Jacques' departure. "Our priority is to ensure that this season's performance remains unaffected by this move. "I shall make a further statement on Monday, clarifying our position. We wish Jacques well."
Mutu to hold talks with Juventus Disgraced former Chelsea striker Adrian Mutu is to begin talks with Juventus as he looks for a new club. "Mutu will be in our club's main stand to watch the match between Juventus and Fiorentina," said a Juventus official, who declined to be named. "Then he will meet some important people of the club," he added. Mutu, 25, sacked by Chelsea and banned for seven months for taking cocaine, is now represented by Alessandro Moggi, son of Juve manager Luciano Moggi. Mutu, banned by the English FA, can resume playing next May. He is to undergo a drug education and rehabilitation programme. Mutu wants to train with Romanian side Dinamo Bucharest whilst serving his ban, say the Bucharest side.
Uefa approves fake grass Uefa says it will allow European matches to be played on artificial pitches from the start of next season. European football's governing body made the decision at a meeting of its Executive Committee on Wednesday. Uefa explained that the move "follows comprehensive studies into the sporting and medical aspects of using artificial playing surfaces." They can be used subject to complying with Uefa quality criteria but there use will not be made obligatory. Luton, Preston, Queens Park Rangers and other clubs used to have plastic pitches during the the 1980s but, after a two-year study, Uefa insists the surfaces have moved on. International matches can also be played on such pitches, although games at major tournaments have to be contested on grass. Uefa spokesman Rob Faulkner said: "People in England have bad memories of the artificial pitches of Luton and QPR in the 1980s, but the latest generation are completely different and are much more like grass. "We have sanctioned its use from the start of next season but only as long as it is the latest generation of artificial turf and meets a whole series of standards." Several leading clubs from Scandinavia, Russia and eastern Europe - especially those who only play Champions League or Uefa Cup matches in winter - are now expected to instal artificial pitches.
Yeading face Newcastle in FA Cup Premiership side Newcastle United face a trip to Ryman Premier League leaders Yeading in the FA Cup third round. The game - arguably the highlight of the draw - is a potential money-spinner for non-League Yeading, who beat Slough in the second round. Conference side Exeter City, who knocked out Doncaster on Saturday, will travel to Old Trafford to meet holders Manchester United in January. Arsenal were drawn at home to Stoke and Chelsea will play host to Scunthorpe. The only other non-League side in the draw are Hinckley United, who held Brentford to a goalless draw on Sunday. They will meet League One leaders Luton if they win their replay against Martin Allen's team at Griffin Park. A number of Premiership teams face difficult away games against Championship sides on the weekend of 8/9 January. Third-placed Everton visit Plymouth, Liverpool travel to Burnley, Crystal Palace go to Sunderland, Fulham face Carling Cup semi-finalists Watford, Bolton meet Ipswich, while Aston Villa were drawn against Sheffield United. Premiership strugglers Norwich, Blackburn, West Brom are away at West Ham, Cardiff and Preston North End respectively. Southampton visit Northampton, having already beaten the League Two side in the Carling Cup earlier this season. Middlesbrough were drawn away against either Swindon or Notts County, while Spurs entertain Brighton at White Hart Lane. Arsenal v Stoke Swindon/Notts Co v Middlesbrough Man Utd v Exeter Plymouth v Everton Leicester v Blackpool Derby v Wigan Sunderland v Crystal Palace Wolves v Millwall Yeading v Newcastle Hull v Colchester Tottenham v Brighton Reading v Stockport/Swansea Birmingham v Leeds Hartlepool v Boston Milton Keynes Dons v Peterborough Oldham v Man City Chelsea v Scunthorpe Cardiff v Blackburn Charlton v Rochdale West Ham v Norwich Sheff Utd v Aston Villa Preston v West Brom Rotherham v Yeovil Burnley v Liverpool Bournemouth v Chester Coventry v Crewe Watford v Fulham Ipswich v Bolton Portsmouth v Gillingham Northampton v Southampton QPR v Nottm Forest Luton v Hinckley/Brentford Matches to be played on weekend of 8/9 January.
Anelka 'eyes Man City departure' Striker Nicolas Anelka reportedly wants to leave Manchester City in search of Champions League football. Anelka, 25, is in talks over a contract extension beyond 2007 with City but is believed to fear his career will go stale if he stays at the club. The News of the World reports that Anelka told a French magazine: "I either decide to win titles or to have an easy life. "I think I will always choose football, if a great club makes me an offer." He added: "To win titles you need players who have the capability of doing so. If we stagnate between eighth and 15th place it's impossible to progress. "If I am going to score goals and not win, there is a risk it is going to create a feeling of being fed up." Anelka has earned a reputation for being a difficult character to handle after spells at Arsenal, Real Madrid and Paris St Germain and he feels that is now coming back to haunt him. "I am in talks to sign an extension to my contract," he said. "I am well here but the sporting aspect also comes into account. "Playing for eighth place is good but I miss the Champions League. "I won it with Real Madrid in 2000 and I need to be playing in it - and I should be playing in it. "I'm not in it because of things that have happened in the past and had nothing to do with football. "But I don't blame anyone. It's a bit my fault."
Arnesen denies rift with Santini Tottenham sporting director Frank Arnesen has denied that coach Jacques Santini resigned because of a clash of personalities at White Hart Lane. There had been newspaper speculation that Santini had felt undermined by Arnesen's role at the club. "It is absolutely not true," Arnesen told BBC Radio Five Live. "There is only one thing that made him resign and that is his own personal problems. "He has talked to me recently and said this matter is absolutely for himself." Arnesen said he was unable to throw any light onto the problems that caused Santini to quit after just 13 games in charge. He added: "Jacques has never gone into exactly what it was. But I trust him in that; you have to accept it. I think we should respect it. "The plan is now that over the weekend we will have talks with the board and then on Monday we will clarify the situation." Arnesen countered criticism at the timing of the announcement, coming less than 24 hours before Tottenham's Premiership fixture with Charlton. "When it comes down to personal problems, I don't think we should talk about timing," he said. And he also denied reports that Santini had been given a £3m pay-off. "That is absolute nonsense. He is the one who said 'I will go' and so he went'", said the Spurs sporting director. Tottenham's structure of having a sporting director working alongside a coach is based on a continental model and Arnesen sees no reason why they should change it. "I have confidence in this structure. I am confident that we have started something here in July and I still have a lot of confidence in Tottenham and what we are doing," he said. However, former Spurs and England defender Gary Stevens said he would not be surprised if the system had caused a rift. "I think the problems go a lot deeper, between the director of football at White Hart Lane and Santini," Stevens told Five Live. "On paper they could have worked together. But Frank Arnesen was a very creative, forward-thinking and expansive player - whereas I think Santini was very much the opposite, more a case of being organised, disciplined and happy not conceding goals. "That sort of arrangement can work if the two people have the same principles and ideals and work very closely. But it seems that has not happened."
Souness backs Smith for Scotland Graeme Souness believes Walter Smith would be the perfect choice to succeed Berti Vogts as Scotland manager. Souness's former assistant at Rangers is hot favourite to take over from Vogts, who resigned on Monday. "Walter is most definitely the ideal candidate for that job. He'd be perfect for it," Souness told BBC Sport. The Scottish Football Association has appointed Tommy Burns as provisional caretaker-boss for the friendly against Sweden on 17 November. "He fits the bill because of his knowledge and understanding of the Scotland team and football. He is experienced and has been successful." Souness added: "Walter is a real football person, as I know from working with him at Ibrox. "On top of all that he is a proper human being who would command the instant respect of the players and everyone involved in Scottish football." Souness joined Sir Alex Ferguson in backing Smith's claims. The Scottish Football Association is about to embark on the search for Vogts successor after appointing Tommy Burns in a caretaker capacity. Ferguson said: "He (Smith) would be the outstanding candidate as far as I'm concerned. "You need somebody who knows what they're doing and Walter would bring a wealth of experience to the job." The Man Utd boss continued: "I don't know what credentials are needed to do the job but it's a job that needs a lot of experience. "He was my assistant with Scotland and here at Manchester United and he has also managed Glasgow Rangers. "He would need to change the whole shape of Scottish football and radical changes are needed." Smith was assistant to Ferguson at the World Cup in Mexico in 1986. The former Everton and Rangers boss has been out of the game since a spell as Manchester United assistant last term. BBC Sport understands that Smith would be willing to discuss taking over if he was approached by the Scottish FA. If he is tempted to take over, it seems almost certain Smith's long-time right-hand man Archie Knox would also play a part in the national team set-up. Smith already has the backing of many pundits and fans, including former Scotland manager Craig Brown. Brown said: "Walter is an outstanding candidate without doubt. "He would be admirable choice. I spoke to him on Sunday and I got the impression he would take it. He was asking me about it and I was positive." Other candidates for the job include former Scotland midfielders Gordon Strachan and Gary McAllister and Vogts' assistant Tommy Burns.
Gallas sees two-horse race Chelsea's William Gallas believes they will battle it out with Arsenal for the Premiership in the coming months. "It'll be a two-horse race all the way to the end of the season because we are both going to give it everything," he told BBC Sport. "You need to be good and you need a lot of luck. You need a bit of both but it will be as hard for the Arsenal players as it is for the Chelsea boys." "We know that we have got the power in our hands just now," added Gallas. "But you never know what is going to happen in football - two seasons ago Manchester United picked up so many points towards the end of the season when they won the title. "Obviously, nobody at Chelsea wants to come second but you never know what happens in football. "We will be challenging to come first as much as every Arsenal player will be challenging to come first." Gallas has been given extra confidence by the impact manager Jose Mourinho has had since taking over as manager during the summer. And the French international defender believes Mourinho is perfectly suited to boss the squad of Chelsea stars and says his managerial expertise will prevent any player revolt. "It's only normal when you have got a team put together of such big names that you put the finishing touch to it and the finishing touch at Chelsea is a fantastic manager like Mourinho," he said. "He is the icing on the cake at the club. He has this fantastic knack of thinking of everything. "Another incredible quality that Mourinho has is that every player, even though the fans may consider them to be a stars, within the dressing-room they are absolutely equal. "Mourinho reminds everyone but he doesn't have to because he has created a wonderful atmosphere where everybody is playing and laughing every day. "It is a changed dressing-room from the atmosphere there was last year."
Tevez - an Argentine in Brazil Some 65 years ago Bernardo Gandulla left Boca Juniors in his native Argentina and headed for Brazil. He arrived at the Vasco da Gama club with considerable prestige - which he failed to live up to. He left an impression, but not for reasons he would have wanted. The only thing of note he did was to throw the ball back when it went out of play. Even today, 'gandula' is the term used in Brazil for ballboy. Brazilians delighted in the failure of Gandulla then, and many will delight now if history is repeated. Another Boca Juniors player is coming to Brazil. 'The new Maradona' - Carlos Tevez - is joining Corinthians for nearly $20m in a strong candidate for the strangest move of the year. Corinthians - or the London-based company who have just entered into partnership with them - appear to have paid well above the odds for Tevez. It is particularly strange as - until last week - Tevez was not even an especially big name in Brazil, where the Argentine Championship is not shown. Presumably there is some financial logic behind the move. What is harder to work out is why Tevez should be interested in heading north, rather than across the Atlantic. Argentina's brightest new star hit top form in August as he spearheaded the charge towards the Olympic gold medal. But the subsequent months have not been easy for Tevez. Boca re-signed Martin Palermo, forcing Tevez to vacate his favoured centre forward role. And off the pitch he gave the press plenty to report - Atletico Madrid gave up on him after declaring his private life to be 'disorganized.' Hounded by the press, Tevez grew tired of his life in Buenos Aires. So now he says that he is heading for Corinthians in search of 'tranquillity.' Anyone acquainted with the city of S&#227;o Paulo will relish the nonsense of this declaration. Brazil's biggest city is a sprawling, ugly, restless metropolis. Once it shared with Buenos Aires the same melancholy air of a city of Italian immigrants. But that world now lies buried under skyscrapers. The most turbulent place in this frenetic city is Sport Club Corinthians. It is the most passionately supported club in Brazil. Pel&#233; scored reams of goals against them, reasoning that unless he did something special the Corinthians fans were capable of winning the game on their own. That passion can also be turned against the team - especially nowadays, when the level of urban violence gives a hysterical edge to life in Brazil's big cities. Corinthians fans have invaded the dressing room or ambushed the team coach to attack the players. Tevez, then, can kiss tranquillity goodbye. He can also say farewell to the Copa Libertadores, South America's Champions League. Corinthians have not qualified. Indeed, he will have a long wait for a worthwhile match. Next year's Brazilian Championship only gets underway at the end of April. Until then he will have to make do with the foolish S&#227;o Paulo State Championship, an appalling waste of his talent. There will be matches in small towns on poor pitches with plenty of defenders keen to kick him all the way back to Argentina. Like so many of the top South American players, Tevez has the gift of being able to surprise - to feint right and go left, to pass when he was expected to dribble, to shoot and catch the goalkeeper unawares. But his choice of destination is the biggest surprise of all.
Edu blasts Arsenal Arsenal's Brazilian midfielder Edu has hit out at the club for stalling over offering him a new contract. Edu's deal expires next summer and he has been linked with Spanish trio Real Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia. He told BBC Sport: "I'm not sure if I want to stay or not because the club have let the situation go on this far. "If they had really wanted to sign they should have come up with an offer six months before indicating they wanted to sign me and that's made me think." Edu's brother and representative Amadeo Fensao has previously said that Arsenal's current offer to the midfielder was well short of what he was seeking. And Edu, 26, added: "My brother is due to come to London on Thursday. "There is a meeting planned for 6 or 7 January to sort it out with Arsenal. "Now I have a choice to stay or go. I want to sort it out as soon as possible, that's in the best interests of both the club and myself. "I'm going to make my decision after the meeting later this week." Edu is now able to begin negotiations with other clubs because Fifa regulations allow players to start talks six months before their contracts expire. The midfielder, who broke in to the Brazilian national side in 2004, admitted he had been flattered to have been linked with the three Spanish giants. Edu said: "I've just heard stories from the news that the Madrid president Florentino Perez, the Valencia people, as well as Barcelona are interested. "That's nice, but I've never talked to them, so I can't say they want me sign 100%." Last month Wenger said he we was hopeful Edu would sign a new deal and played down suggestions that the lure of a club like Real Madrid would be too strong for Edu. Edu added that he had been encouraged by Wenger's support for him. "I still have a good relationship with Arsene Wenger - he's always said he wants me to sign."
Can Smith work Scottish wonders? The worst kept secret in Scottish football was revealed on Thursday when Walter Smith was named as the new national manager. From the moment Berti Vogts' miserable tenure in charge of Scotland ended, the former Rangers and Everton boss has been the overwhelming favourite for the post. But is Smith the man for what must be one of the hardest jobs in football? The 56-year-old takes over at a time when the national side is in the doldrums. Scotland have not reached a major finals since the World Cup in 1998 and reaching Germany 2006 looks near impossible, having picked up just two points from the opening three games in the qualifying race. And the Fifa rankings see Scotland listed at an all time low of 77th, below the likes of Estonia, Ghana, Angola and Thailand. Scotland are not blessed with quality players with experience at the top level, so Smith will have to get the best out of meagre resources. Smith's track record make impressive reading and he is widely respected within the game. The man who was Alex Ferguson's assistant when Scotland played at the 1986 World Cup won seven league titles with Rangers. And his appointment has been widely endorsed by many of the games' top names, including Ferguson and Graeme Souness, who took him to Ibrox as his assistant in 1986. Characters like Souness, Ferguson and current Ibrox manager Alex McLeish all cite Smith's experience and his expansive knowledge of the Scottish game. Much was made of Vogts' inability to express himself to the players and media. That will certainly not be the case with Smith. The former Dundee United and Dumbarton full-back is from the managerial old school - straight talking and never slow to let players know when he expects better (often with the use of some colourful invective). But it should be remembered Vogts came to Scotland with an impressive curriculum vitae - a World Cup winner as a player and a European Championships winner as a manager. Smith will inherit the same problems Vogts had - a callow squad of players with no exceptional talents. And it remains to be seen if Smith will experience the rash of call-offs that blighted so much of Vogts' preparation work. A fresh start for the Scottish national team was imperative and Smith is widely regarded as a safe pair of hands. But will a safe pair of hands be enough when the adroit hands of a magician might be required...
Jansen suffers a further setback Blackburn striker Matt Jansen faces three weeks out after surgery to treat a cartilage problem. But central defender Lorenzo Amoruso is moving closer to fitness following a knee operation. Rovers' assistant manager Mark Bowen said: "Matt had a small operation to trim knee cartilage. "It's a tiny piece of work, which should be a fairly quick recovery. Lorenzo is also jogging for the first time, along with kicking a ball." Jansen's career has been dogged by injury since a freak scooter accident two years ago. He returned to first-team action soon after Mark Hughes' appointment as Blackburn boss and marked it with a goal against Portsmouth in his first appearance of the season. Bowen added: "I'm guessing, but I reckon maybe two to three weeks before he is back in action completely." The Rovers assistant boss forecast a longer time spell for Amoruso's availability for first-team duties. Bowen said: "There's still some scar tissue present so it will be some weeks. "It's a case of see how he goes. You can't put a real time on a comeback, we'll see how he progresses."
Mansfield 0-1 Leyton Orient An second-half goal from Andy Scott condemned Mansfield to a ninth successive game without a win. Early in the second half Wayne Carlisle's cross was met by Scott and he blasted the ball home from just outside the penalty area. As Orient chased a second, Mansfield had to clear Alan White's header off the line and Kevin Pilkington saved well from Michael Simpson. By the end Mansfield fans were chanting for the head of chairman Keith Haslam. Pilkington, Talbot, Buxton, Dimech, Artell, Corden, Murray, Curtis, Neil, Warne, Barker. Subs Not Used: White, McIntosh, Wood, Lloyd, Herron. Harrison, Lockwood, Donny Barnard, White,Mackie, Scott, Saah, Simpson, Carlisle, Lee Barnard, Ibehre. Subs Not Used: Morris, Wardley, Newey, Zakuani, McMahon. Scott 51. 3,803 S Mathieson (Cheshire).
Zambia confident and cautious Zambia's technical director, Kalusha Bwalya is confident and cautious ahead of the Cosafa Cup final against Angola on Saturday in Lusaka. Bwalya said: "Nothing short of victory will do." However Bwalya warned his side not to be too complacent. "I don't want my team to be too comfortable or too sure of victory as it is going to be a difficult game. "For me the main aim of the game is to enjoy and to win." Zambia have shown their determination to win this final by recalling nine of their foreign-based players. However the 41 year-old Bwalya, who became the oldest player to appear in the competition when he played and scored against Mauritius, is uncertain whether he will take to the field or not. The Chipolopolo fans however are not being so cautious with a 'victory' concert already scheduled for after the match featuring some of the country's top musicians. Both sides are hoping to win the competition for a record third time, and so keep the trophy for good. The Chipolopolo won the first two editions of the regional tournament for Southern African nations in 1997 and 1998. They were prevented from a third straight win by Angola who knocked out the Zambians at the semi-final stage in 1999. That victory for Angola also marked a first defeat in 14 years for Zambia at Lusaka's Independence stadium, where Saturday's game is being played. Angola named just four overseas-based players in their preliminary squad. The Palancas Negras have been unable to secure the release of many of their Portugal-based players.
Reaction from Spanish press England's 1-0 defeat to Spain on Wednesday dominated the back and front pages of the country's press on Thursday. Controversy was in no short supply, with racist abuse of England's black players, Wayne Rooney's petulance and England's inept performance. But what did the Spanish press make of the affair? BBC Sport looks at the reaction. There is little coverage of the racist chanting on Wednesday night's game. But AS does cover the English reaction to the pre-match comments from Spain coach Luis Aragones, who highlighted Britain's colonial past when probed about his own remarks regarding Thierry Henry in October. Journalist Guillem Balague writes: "In our country, where multi-culturalism is a new thing, we are in nappies dealing with these things, and have a naivety which makes the English nervous." Marca refers in passing to the booing of England's black players - but only after referring to the cheers of "ole" which greeted the long periods of Spanish possession. Aragones' "no comment" to questions about racism after the match is also highlighted, as Marca focuses on the Spanish coach's praise for his players. Serbia & Montenegro's 2-0 World Cup qualifying win in Belgium - which could make qualification tougher for Spain - seems to be of greater importance. Elsewhere, the Spanish media criticises its English counterparts for stoking up the racism issue. "Were there racist chants against some players? This hasn't happened in the Spanish league and Spain for many years," said Spanish Federation press officer Fernando Garrido. "So you (English reporters) should ask yourselves what you have done to contribute to all this." And Spanish daily ABC accuses English reporters of launching a witch-hunt against Aragones. "Perhaps it was because their team had played so poorly and they wanted to divert attention towards this muddled issue," the paper says. "What the boy in the Bernabeu did was odd... Rooney seemed intent to kick any Spanish player who approached him." Yet Rooney is seen only as the worst example of many England miscreants, with Gary Neville criticised for continuing the feud between Manchester United and Arsenal for his tackles on Jose Reyes. Ashley Cole's treatment of Joaquin, and a Frank Lampard foul on Reyes are also lambasted for their "ugliness". Marca's headline says it all: "Wayne Rooney se volvi&#243; loco en el Bernab&#233;u (Wayne Rooney became crazy in the Bernabeu)" Rooney's display alarms the writer, in particular three "chilling" fouls on Joaquin, Casillas and Marchena, which "could well have left them in the infirmary." And like AS, Marca criticises Gary Neville for "leaving a message on Reyes' ankle" to remind him of the Manchester United-Arsenal clash this month. Spain's first-half performance is showered with praise, with Xavi singled out as the biggest star. "Xavi did things on Wednesday which were worthy of Maradona," the paper beams, adding, "What a work-rate, what dynamism, what vision, what leadership, what a midfield player!" On a controversial evening, AS offers one seemingly undeniable viewpoint: "Spanish football players played better football than the English." More plaudits are given to the home team, with Jaime Vargas lauding the manner in which "Spain dominated England with order and quality". The paper adds: "The bad thing about Spain v England was that it lasted only 65 minutes after which a succession of changes prevented any real competition." Vargas does not mention England's two Galacticos, simply adding in a PS: "I have not forgotten to speak of Beckham and Owen. They forgot to play."
Kerr frustrated at victory margin Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr admitted he was frustrated his side did not score more than one goal in their friendly win over Croatia. Robbie Keane took his Republic record to 24 with a first-half goal which proved enough for victory. "We had more good chances. It is just a shame we did not take them against such a technically gifted team," said Kerr. "But, given the conditions and the standard of the Croatian team, we should be very happy with the win." The Republic side kept a clean sheet for the eighth time in 11 matches and are unbeaten in 14 home games since Kerr succeeded Mick McCarthy. Kerr applauded the decisive move which earned the victory. "It was a brilliant goal, fantastic skill by Damien Duff. Robbie might have scuffed it a little but it was a good goal." Matchwinner Keane was another full of praise for Duff's role in the goal. "It was great play from Damien," said the Tottenham striker. "I always try to be sniffing around because you know nine times out of 10 Duffer is going to get it in the box. "Playing three up was something different. Brian Kerr wanted to try it out and it was good to see young Stephen Elliott getting a run-out. "The conditions were difficult but he did well and is definitely one for the future. It is nice to see young players coming through." Man-of-the-match Duff explained what went wrong when he fluffed a chance to make it 2-0 midway through the second half. He opted to bring Steve Finnan's cross down and shoot against the bar when a close-range header looked the best option. "I would have headed that every time but I completely lost it in the lights," said the Chelsea star. "I was desperate to get on the scoresheet myself but the result is the important thing. "We have had a good year and are going nicely in the qualifiers. Hopefully that can continue in 2005."
Mourinho plots impressive course Chelsea's win at Fulham - confirming their position at the Premiership summit - proves that they now have everything in place to mount serious challenges on all fronts this season. They have got strength in depth, great players, an outstanding manager in Jose Mourinho and finances no other club in the world can match. All they need to add now is the big prizes which, as we all know, is the most difficult part of all. One thing is certain - they have put themselves in a position to make that leap to success very impressively indeed. They beat a very tough Everton at Stamford Bridge, won at Newcastle in the Carling Cup, and then won 4-1 at Fulham, which was a great result given that they had been showing good form. As I said, winning the major honours is the hardest task of all, but in Mourinho they have a manager who will make it a whole lot easier to handle the anticipation and expectation that will come their way now. Mourinho has won the biggest club prize of all, the Champions League, and that track record and confidence transmits itself to top players. It is a priceless commodity. No-one can be anything other than highly-impressed by Mourinho. He is regarded as a touch arrogant by some people, and maybe he can appear that way, but he has the silverware to back up the talk. Mourinho doesn't simply talk a good game - he's won some very big games such as the Champions League final with Porto. Some may criticise his talk, but the words are backed up with actions. I've also found him to be very realistic whenever I've heard him. He's spent a lot of money and it seems to be working, and we should remember lots of managers have spent money and it has not worked. The buys are now integrating, and in Arjen Robben he has the player who is giving them that extra dimension. In the early games he was slaughtered for defensive tactics, and yet he was winning games. You cannot win titles early on in the season, but you can certainly lose them and those points on the board were vital. I also thought the criticism was very harsh, because even though they were not scoring goals they were creating chances by the hatful. Now they are taking those chances, have the double threat of Robben and Damien Duff, and things are looking good. I just wonder if they lack a predator, particularly with Didier Drogba injured. He was starting to look the part before he was sidelined, but you have to feel if Chelsea had a Ruud van Nistelrooy they would be even more of a safe bet for the title. Chelsea also have all the tools to go far in the Champions League. I felt they would never have a better chance than last season, but they have swept all before them in Europe so far this season. It will now be very interesting to see how Mourinho prioritises things, but his life will be made easier by the size of Chelsea's squad. I have said I believed Chelsea would win the league this season, even when Arsenal were flying at the start, and I have seen nothing to make me change me mind. If anything, what I have seen has confirmed my early impressions. And Chelsea would have taken encouragement from Arsenal's rocky defensive display at Spurs, even though they ran out 5-4 winners. Mourinho had his say on that game, complaining: "Five-four is a hockey score, not a football score. "In a three-against-three training match, if the score reaches 5-4 I send the players back to the dressing rooms as they are not defending properly. "So to get a result like that in a game of 11 against 11 is disgraceful." On a more serious note, it was a game that merely confirmed the importance of Sol Campbell to Arsenal. Much criticism has been aimed at Pascal Cygan, but I believe the problem lies with the absence of Campbell and its overall effect on Arsenal's defence. Confidence is a crucial factor in defending. When you start conceding goals, you suddenly get a chill in the bones every time the ball comes into the penalty area. You think "oh no" - then find your worst fears confirmed. Arsenal need to reverse the process, with or without Campbell, and get some clean sheets on the board. But the return of Campbell is key. He solidifies the unit, has pace and is powerful in the air and on the deck. He is vastly experienced and has a calming influence on all around him. Campbell pulls it all together at the back and gets the defence playing as a unit. Chelsea have no such problems at present, which is why I would still place my money on them to edge out Arsenal as champions this season.
Hearts of Oak 3-2 Cotonsport Hearts of Oak set up an all Ghanaian Confederation Cup final with a 3-2 win over Cameroon's Cotonsport Garoua in Accra on Sunday. The win for Hearts means they will play Asante Kotoko in the two-leg final, after the Kumasi team qualified from Group A on Saturday. In the other Group B game Cameroon's beat of South Africa 3-2 in Douala, neither side could have qualified for the final. Hearts of Oak started the game needing a win to qualify for the final while Cotonsport only needed to avoid defeat to go through. Louis Agyemang scored the first two goals for Hearts either side of half time before Ben Don Bortey scored the third. Hearts looked set for a comfortable win but Cotonsport staged a late fight back scoring twice late on. First of all Boukar Makaji scored in the 89th minute and then 3 minutes into injury time at the end of the game Andre Nzame III was on target. But it was too little too late for the Cameroonians and Hearts held on to win the game and a place in the final. The first leg of the final will be played in Accra on the weekend of 27-28 November and the second leg two weeks later on the 11 December in Kumasi. In the other Group B game Cameroon's Sable Batie took the lead in the 35th minute through Kemadjou before Santos equalised on the hour mark thanks to Thokozani Xaba . Bernard Ngom put Sable ahead just five minutes later and then Ernest Nfor settled the game on 68 minutes. Ruben Cloete scored the South African sides consolation with just three minutes left on the clock.
Curbishley delight for Johansson Charlton manager Alan Curbishley paid tribute to two-goal striker Jonatan Johansson after beating Norwich. Curbishley said after the 4-0 win: "There was talk about Norwich being interested in the summer but I have a lot of faith in Jonatan. "When there was talk of other clubs I just told him he was going nowhere. "He's part of our squad and he got us a couple of important goals early on. I'm sure he's happy here, but I was delighted with all the players." Curbishley was subjected to criticism from Charlton fans recently, and he said: "The thing about this club is that we have got where we are by all pulling in the same direction. "That's happened for however long I've been here and we don't want people taking sides."
Lennon brands Rangers favourites Celtic's Neil Lennon admits Rangers could be considered "slight favourites" for the Old Firm CIS Cup clash, but insists his side can still win. Lennon concedes Rangers are in good form at the moment, but they have failed to beat Celtic in their last seven meetings. "Rangers are on the up and have been on a good run in recent weeks," he said. "But it's a game we believe we're capable of winning if we play our best," he told the Evening Times. "All the boys are looking forward to it because they are brilliant games to be involved in. "Without playing at the top of our game, we have still been winning matches. "At the minute, we are at the top of the league and still in with a chance of staying in Europe, so I don't think it is the crisis people have been trying to make out. "Of course, it is a concern when you are losing goals, because we have been notorious for being a team that is hard to beat and keeping clean sheets, but hopefully we are over that wee run. "Considering we lost Henrik Larsson at the end of last season, we have still been scoring a lot of goals, which is pleasing."
McClaren hails Boro's Uefa spirit Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren has praised the way his side have got to grips with European football after the 2-0 Uefa Cup win against Lazio. Boro, who are playing in Europe for the first time in their 128-year history, are top of Group E with maximum points. "I think we have taken to Europe really well," said McClaren. "We got about Lazio, didn't let them settle or play. And in possession, we controlled it and looked threatening every time we went forward." Before the match, McClaren had said that a win over the Italian giants would put Boro firmly on the European footballing map. And after they did just that he said: "It was a perfect European night. For the team to give the fans a performance like that was the icing on the cake. "There have been many good performances but this was something special. "You can see that the experience we have in the squad is showing. To win in Europe you need to defend well, and we have done that because we have conceded only one goal in four games. "We can also score goals, and again that is something you can see from the performances we have had, so we have good balance. McClaren's only criticism of his side was that their dominance should have been resulted in more goals. "It should have been more convincing," said McClaren. "But I had watched Lazio in recent weeks and I saw them score a late equaliser against Inter Milan on Saturday so I knew we needed a second goal. "No matter what anybody says, Lazio are favourites to win this competition." Middlesbrough forward Boudewijn Zenden said he did not expect such a comfortable match after he scored both goals. "We didn't expect it to be that one-sided," said Zenden. "We did quite well in the first half, we pressured them and they didn't cope with that. "I think we played quite well and it was a very good game, especially in the first half." The Holland international said Boro are confident of progressing in the competition after winning their first two group games. "We've got a very good feeling, there is a good spirit, all the lads work hard for each other and it's a squad of friendly players, which I think you can see on the pitch," he added.
Benitez delight after crucial win Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez admitted victory against Deportivo La Coruna was vital in their tight Champions League group. Jorge Andrade's early own goal gave Liverpool a 1-0 win. And Benitez said: "We started at a very high tempo and had many chances. It is a very important win for us and we could have scored more goals. "We were very good defensively and also good on the counter attack. We are pleased but move on to the next game." Igor Biscan was outstanding in midfield after replacing injured Xabi Alonso, and Benitez said: "He played very well. "It is important to have all the players ready and a good squad so you can play more games at a high level." Benitez added: "It is all back in our own hands now, it was a great win for us and I was delighted with what I feel was the best Liverpool I have seen. "As far as my feelings about winning in Spain, that is really not important. "I want to see us win away matches in the Champions League, that it was in Spain was not my first consideration. "As far as I am concerned it is important for Liverpool to win, it is not important in what country it is in." Benitez added: Benitez said: "We had a problem before the start, it was decided that Xabi could not play more than 45 minutes. "But in the end because of the way that (Dietmar) Hamann and (Igor) Biscan performed, we did not need to change things until right at the end of the match. "Depor are a good team and if you allow them to keep possession they can be very dangerous indeed. "But we knew that if we hit them on the counter-attack it would make them nervous, and that is how it worked out." Deportivo coach Javier Irureta said: "Liverpool played very well and we just could not break them down. "I know we have now gone six games at home in Europe without scoring, but that does not reflect our overall performances. "But this time we did not play well and we lacked imagination. "The goal was a bad mistake and a big blow to our confidence. Players who usually want the ball at that stage did not want it. "I know we are bottom of the group, but as long as there is hope of qualifying, we will hang on to that."
Bristol City 2-1 Milton Keynes Leroy Lita took his goal tally to 13 for the season as his double earned City an LDV Vans Trophy win. The striker finished off Scott Murray cross from close range just seconds before half-time. Lita then made it 2-0 on 52 minutes, but Dons' substitute Serge Makofo then netted a great volley to make it 2-1. The visitors almost took the tie to extra time with a late 30-yard bullet from Richard Johnson which was well held by Steve Phillips. Phillips, Amankwaah, Coles, Hill, Fortune, Murray (Anyinsah 59), Doherty (Harley 45), Dinning, Bell, Lita (Cotterill 72), Gillespie. Subs Not Used: Orr, Brown. Hill. Lita 45, 52. Bevan, Oyedele, Ntimban-Zeh, Crooks, Puncheon, Kamara (Makofo 64), Chorley, Herve (McKoy 45), Tapp (Johnson 45), Mackie, Pacquette. Subs Not Used: Martin, Palmer. Pacquette, Chorley, Johnson, McKoy. Makofo 66. 3,367 J Ross (Essex).
Hereford 1-1 Doncaster Hereford win 3-1 on penalties. Rovers took the lead on 59 minutes as Michael McIndoe's corner found Adriano Rigoglioso, whose stunning volley soared into the top right of the net. Danny Williams equalised for the hosts after 72 minutes with a crisp finish from just insist the penalty box. McIndoe saw an extra-time penalty saved, giving Mills the chance to net the winning penalty. Mawson, Travis, Mkandawire, James, Robinson, Daniel Williams, Stanley, Hyde (Pitman 105), Purdie (Mills 83), Brown, Stansfield (Green 102). Subs Not Used: Smith, Scott. James. Daniel Williams 72. Ingham, Mulligan, Fenton, Morley, Priet (Ryan 79), McIndoe, Ravenhill (Price 90), Rigoglioso, Tierney (Jackson 79), Beardsley, Coppinger. Subs Not Used: Warrington, Maloney. Rigoglioso 59. 1,375 T Parkes (W Midlands).
Wolves appoint Hoddle as manager Glenn Hoddle will be unveiled as the new Wolves manager on Tuesday. The club have confirmed that the former England coach will be unveiled as the successor to Dave Jones at a news conference at Molineux at 1100 GMT. Hoddle has been linked with a return to former club Southampton but Wolves have won the race for his services. He has been out of the game since being sacked at Spurs in September 2003 and worked alongside Wolves caretaker boss Stuart Gray at Southampton. Hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with Swindon before moving on to Chelsea and then taking up the England job. His spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 World Cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview. The 47-year-old later returned to management with Southampton, where he again succeeded Jones - as he has now done at Wolves. He engineered an upturn in Saints' fortunes before being lured to White Hart Lane by Tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player. That relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the London club early last season. Since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of France manager and had also been linked with a return to Southampton. Wolves are currently 17th in the Championship and have a home game against Millwall on Tuesday.
Wenger keeping faith with Almunia Arsene Wenger has pledged to keep faith with stand-in keeper Manuel Almunia for the crunch week which could define Arsenal's season. Almunia will start Tuesday's Champions League group tie against Rosenborg and is likely to face Chelsea on Sunday. Wenger said: "You don't think I would take out one goalkeeper for just one game, do you? I don't do that. "I have to give him a run for a few games. It's just that I don't want to make this story bigger than it is." Wenger insists he has complete faith in the 27-year-old Spaniard, who was signed last summer from Celta Vigo as back-up to Jens Lehmann. "If you look at my career, you will see that I have left many big players out for a long time. I've done it with Dennis Bergkamp, Kanu, everybody. "It's because it's a goalkeeper, that's all. It's a usual situation for me. You put your best team out, no matter who it is. "For me, it was not a big mistake at Old Trafford and I wasn't alarmed by what happened against Birmingham either. "It's nothing against Lehmann. I think he's a great keeper, as is Almunia. You can only play one of them. "These people are not robots - they have good periods and less good periods. Just because Lehmann doesn't play for two or three weeks, or longer or shorter, it doesn't mean I've lost faith in him." But former Arsenal keeper David Seaman believes Lehmann has been harshly treated. Seaman told the Daily Mail: "Jens is a fantastic keeper. He deserves another chance. "He has made a few mistakes but on form he deserves to be the first-team choice." With Arsenal hit by injuries and suspension, inexperienced midfield pair of Mathieu Flamini and Cesc Fabregas will line up against Rosenborg but Wenger is confident they will prove more than capable. "It puts a lot of pressure on them but it's a good learning process," said Wenger. "I'm not worried as they are both mentally strong and will put in the needed workrate." The Gunners go into the game boosted by the news that defender Sol Campbell is on the verge of signing a new deal with the club. And the 30-year-old, whose current contract runs out in the summer, has made it clear he is determined to achieve Champions League success with Arsenal. Campbell said: "It means a lot to me to go through, it's everything. We want to carry on in this competition. "That's where the best teams in Europe are. To be in there, playing against these guys and trying to win the trophy, is the first thing in my mind." Meanwhile, Thierry Henry believes he will be blamed if Arsenal fail to qualify for the next stage of the Champions League. Henry will captain the side in place of the suspended Patrick Vieira as the Gunners seek the required victory over Rosenborg. And the striker said: "If we don't win and we go out of the competition, like it or not, it's going to be my fault. That's the way it is. "If the team don't win I know I will be criticised, no matter how I play."
Houllier praises Benitez regime Former Liverpool manager Gerard Houllier has praised the work of his Anfield successor Rafael Benitez. Houllier was angry at reports that he has been critical of Benitez since the Spaniard took over at Liverpool. But Houllier told BBC Sport: "In private and in public, I have stressed I believe Rafa is doing a good job. He is the right man at the right place. "Rafa is a good coach and a good man. I've spoken to him since he has been at Liverpool and never criticised him." Houllier also revealed he is now ready to return to the game after leaving Liverpool in May following six years at Anfield. The former France boss has been linked with a host of jobs and pulled out of the race to succeed Mark Hughes as Wales national coach. He has been working for Uefa, covering the Premiership for French television and also coaching in Brazil with national coach Carlos Alberto Perreira. Houllier said: "If a good club comes up at the right time then yes, I am ready to come back. "It has been interesting to watch games from a different perspective and I have learned things. "I have been involved in football since leaving Liverpool and my batteries are recharged." Houllier has been impressed with the quality in the Premiership after watching as a pundit - particularly with Jose Mourinho's work at leaders Chelsea. He said: "Chelsea are doing very well. They have some very good creative players in Damien Duff and Arjen Robben and Didier Drogba showed he can change the face of a game when he came on against Newcastle. "They have got a good team spirit and are strong mentally. They have shown they can cope with all the pressure put on them because of the expectations and cope well with Jose's principles. "Jose had results before he came to Chelsea and I think he will have an impact in the Premiership because he manages his team very cleverly." And Houllier, away from his brief at Liverpool, has been hugely impressed with the Premiership. He said: "It is a very exciting league. It is entertaining, goals are scored and teams are always trying to win. "It has been very interesting to watch the game from a different perspective. "Games switch from end-to-end and there is more pace to the Premiership than other leagues. It is a very good product."
McClaren targets Champions League Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren believes his side can clinch a top-four spot in the Premiership and secure qualification for the Champions League. After their 3-2 win over Manchester City, McClaren said: "We are playing exciting football, it's a magnificent result to keep us in the top five. "But how well we do depends how often we can get our best team out. "Once we got the third goal it should have been four or five but we nearly paid for it in the end." McClaren also praised winger Stewart Downing and strikers Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and Mark Viduka, who both ended barren runs in front of goal. He added: "If Stewart keeps playing like this Sven-Goran Eriksson has got to pick him. "And the strikers scored great goals, the combination play between them shows they want to play with each other and they are trying."
Hitzlsperger waiting on O'Leary Aston Villa's Thomas Hitzlsperger is waiting to learn the future of manager David O'Leary before committing himself to a new contract with the club. O'Leary has been in talks over a new deal and he said: "I had a message from Thomas' agent asking me what the news was on myself. "He wants to find out before he goes into discussions over Thomas. "The reason Thomas is not speaking to the club is because the agent wants to see the outcome of what happens to me." Hitzlsperger's current deal expires in the summer and he has been offered a new deal by the Midlands club. The German international is understood to be keen to remain at Villa, despite interest in his native country from Hamburg. But he wants assurances that O'Leary will also be committing himself long-term because negotiations over a new three-and-a-half-year contract appear to have stalled. O'Leary wants his backroom staff - assistant manager Roy Aitken and fitness coach Steve McGregor - to also be given satisfactory deals, which will tie them to Villa until the summer of 2008.
Mourinho to escape FA charge Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho will not face any Football Association action over the comments he made after their Carling Cup tie with Manchester United. Mourinho intimated that United boss Sir Alex Ferguson influenced referee Neale Barry after the duo walked down the tunnel together at half-time. But an FA spokesman told BBC Sport: "We are not taking action over Mourinho. "We have looked at the comments and we have decided that no further action is required. That is the end of it." Mourinho was concerned that Ferguson's conversation with Barry was followed by an inconsistent display by the official. "I see one referee in the first half and another in the second," said Mourinho. "If the FA ask me what happened, I will tell them. What I saw and felt made it easier to understand a few things. "Maybe when I turn 60 and have been managing in the same league for 20 years and have the respect of everybody I will have the power to speak to people and make them tremble a little bit. "The referee controlled the game in one way during the first half but in the second they had dozens of free-kicks. It was fault after fault, dive after dive. "But I know the referee did not walk to the dressing rooms alone at half-time. He should only have had his two assistants and the fourth official with him, but there was also someone else." Referees chief Keith Hackett believes Mourinho should retract his comments about Ferguson and Barry as he believes the Blues boss has questioned their integrity. "I'm hoping he might reconsider his comments, unfortunately this is the nature of the game," said Hackett. "I don't want referees or myself getting in the psychological warfare between two managers. For the second leg we have an experienced referee, and we should be talking about the quality of that game rather than the refereeing. "Sometimes managers have grounds for comments, and I note that, but a referees integrity has been questioned, that is offensive and should be avoided. Mr Mourinho should look at the facts." Mourinho added that the match was entertaining for a goalless draw and insisted his team could still reach the final. "It's 0-0, so if we win we go through and if we get a draw we go to extra time," he said. "We have exactly the same chance we had before this game. "We are confident of getting a result but we know what Manchester United is, a footballing power. It'll be difficult for us, but also for them."
Wolves appoint Hoddle as manager Glenn Hoddle has been unveiled as the new Wolves manager. The ex-England coach has been given a six-month contract to succeed Dave Jones, who was sacked after the club's poor start to the season. Wolves chairman Rick Hayward said: "We're delighted Glenn is here. He has a six-month contract so we can test each other out and see if it works." Hoddle, who will work alongside Stuart Gray, has been out of the game since he was sacked by Spurs in 2003. Gray, who has been caretaker manager, was assistant boss when Hoddle was manager at Southampton. "I'm delighted to be here," said Hoddle. "I saw the massive potential that Wolves have got and their desire and amibition to get back into the Premiership parallels my ambitions. "Stuart Gray has done a fantastic job as caretaker manager. We've worked together at Southampton and I'm delighted to be back with him." Wolves chief executive Jez Moxey defended the decision to give Hoddle a short-term contract. "We hope it will work out for both parties and we extend it for the long term," he said. "Most managers want a four-year contract and then expect it to be paid off if it doesn't work out. "For somebody of Glenn's calibre to come in on a short-term contract and put his reputation on the line, it demonstrates his commitment and self-belief and the potential he thinks is here." Hayward revealed that Hoddle was one of the first to be approached after Jones' departure. "He was not available at the time because he was looking at various other things," he explained. "Five weeks later we're back on track and this a tremendous opportunity for Wolves." Hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with Swindon before moving on to Chelsea and then taking up the England job. His spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 World Cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview. The 47-year-old later returned to management with Southampton, where he again succeeded Jones - as he has now done at Wolves. He engineered an upturn in Saints' fortunes before being lured to White Hart Lane by Tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player. That relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the London club early last season. Since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of France manager and had also been linked with a return to Southampton. Wolves are currently 17th in the Championship and have a home game against Millwall on Tuesday.
Redknapp poised for Saints Southampton are set to unveil Harry Redknapp as their new manager at a news conference at 1500 GMT on Wednesday. The former Portsmouth boss replaces Steve Wigley, who has been relieved of first-team duties after just one win in 14 league games in charge. Redknapp, 57, quit his Fratton Park position on 24 November and vowed: "I will not go down the road - no chance." Pompey coach Kevin Bond is poised to join Redknapp, who will be Saints' third boss of the season. Redknapp's first game in charge will be at home to Middlesbrough on Saturday. Portsmouth chairman Milan Mandaric said he was "disappointed" by the news and claimed Redknapp had been in talks with Southampton for "some time". "It would appear that negotiations over this have been going on for some time," Mandaric said on Portsmouth's official website. "I am surprised and a little shocked that the chairman of Southampton has not picked up the phone and kept me informed." According to Mandaric, Redknapp vowed he would not join their South coast rivals when he left Portsmouth. "I said to Harry 'I hope you don't go to Southampton', and he told me 'absolutely not'," he said. "I'm wouldn't say I'm bitter, disgusted or angry, just disappointed, but it's Harry's life and it's his decision." Redknapp became a cult hero after leading Portsmouth into the Premiership for the first time, and then masterminding their survival in their debut season. But he left the club claiming he needed a break from football, though many believed he was upset with Mandaric's decision to bring in Velimir Zajec as executive director. Southampton chairman Rupert Lowe was desperate to give former academy director Wigley, who replaced Paul Sturrock just two games into the season, every chance to succeed at St Mary's. But results under Wigley have been poor and Southampton are deep in trouble near the foot of the table. When Redknapp's appointment is confirmed, he will be Saints' ninth manager in eight years.
FA charges Liverpool and Millwall Liverpool and Millwall have been charged by the Football Association over crowd trouble during their Carling Cup match on 26 October. Millwall, who lost the match 3-0, have also been charged over alleged racist behaviour by their supporters. During the match at Millwall's new Den Stadium, seats were ripped up and four people were ejected from the ground. A disabled fan was injured at the perimeter of the pitch and riot police were needed to control the situation. Liverpool fans claimed the trouble was sparked by chants about the Hillsborough disaster, where 96 supporters were crushed to death in April 1989. But Lions chairman Theo Paphitis has denied the claims. He has said CCTV footage showed the catalyst for the trouble was a Liverpool fan attacking a Millwall fan in the west stand. However, Millwall have been charged with two breaches of FA rules. They have been charged with failing to ensure that fans refrained from racist and/or abusive behaviour and for failing to prevent spectators throwing missiles onto the pitch. Liverpool have been charged with one breach for failing to prevent their fans conducting themselves in threatening and/or violent and/or provocative behaviour. Both clubs have until 23 December to respond.
Wenger steps up row Arsene Wenger has stepped up his feud with Sir Alex Ferguson by claiming the Manchester United manager is guilty of bringing football into disrepute. The pair's long-running row was put back in the headlines on Saturday when Ferguson said his Arsenal counterpart was "a disgrace". Wenger initially refused to bite back, saying only: "I will never answer any questions any more about this man." But now he claims Ferguson should be punished by the Football Association. The latest twist in the Ferguson-Wenger saga came on Saturday when the United boss, in an interview with The Independent newspaper, discussed the events after the game between the two sides in October. United won 2-0 that day, at Old Trafford, but the game was followed by a now notorious food fight which saw Ferguson's clothes covered in soup and pizza. The sides meet again at Highbury on 1 February. "In the tunnel Wenger was criticising my players, calling them cheats, so I told him to leave them alone and behave himself," Ferguson said on Saturday. "He ran at me with hands raised saying 'what do you want to do about it?' "To not apologise for the behaviour of the players to another manager is unthinkable. It's a disgrace, but I don't expect Wenger to ever apologise, he's that type of person." Those allegations were put to Wenger after Saturday's game at Bolton, which Arsenal lost to slip 10 points behind Chelsea in the title race. At first he said only: "I've always been consistent with that story and told you nothing happened. "If he has to talk, he talks. If he wants to make a newspaper article, he makes a newspaper article. "He doesn't interest me and doesn't matter to me at all. I will never answer to any provocation from him any more. "He does what he likes in England anyway. He can go abroad one day and see how it is." But later on Saturday, according to The Independent, Wenger spoke to a smaller group of reporters and expanded on his reaction. "I have no diplomatic relations with him," the Arsenal boss is quoted as saying. "What I don't understand is that he does what he wants and you (the press) are all at his feet. "The situation (concerning the food fight) has been judged and there is a game going on in a month. "The managers have a responsibility to protect the game before the game. But in England you are only punished for what you say after the game. "Now the whole story starts again. I don't go into that game. We play football. I am a football manager and I love football above all ... no matter what people say." Reminded that Ferguson called him "a disgrace", Wenger added: "I don't respond to anything. In England you have a good phrase. It is 'bringing the game into disrepute'. "But that is not only after a game, it is as well before a game." Ferguson had also claimed that United chief executive David Gill and Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein had agreed at boardroom level not to discuss the incident in public. But Ferguson added: "In the ensuing weeks all you got was a diatribe from Arsenal about being kicked off the pitch and all that nonsense. Gill phoned Dein three times to complain but nothing was done. "The return is on 1 February and they will come out with another diatribe. "David Gill and I feel we should set the record straight because Arsenal have not written to us to apologise and we would not let that happen here." Meanwhile, the League Managers Association have offered to act as peacemakers in the hope of resolving the on-going row. During that stormy game in October, United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy caught Arsenal's Ashley Cole with one particularly strong tackle. Wenger later accused Van Nistelrooy of "cheating" and was fined £15,000 and "severely reprimanded" by the Football Association. Ferguson admitted on Saturday that Van Nistelrooy's tackle, which earned the Dutchman a ban, "could have given (Cole) a serious injury", but he believes Arsenal were the main aggressors. "Wenger is always complaining the match was not played in the right spirit," he added. "They are the worst losers of all time, they don't know how to lose. Maybe it is just Manchester United, they don't lose many games to other teams. "We tend to forget the worst disciplinary record of all time was Arsenal's up until last season. In fairness it has improved and now they are seen as paragons of virtue. "But to Wenger it never happens, it is all some dream or nightmare."
Liverpool revel in night of glory Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez said their qualification for the next stage of the Champions League was "one of the proudest nights of my career." The Reds beat Olympiakos 3-1 with a late Steven Gerrard strike and Benitez said: "It was a really great night. "The players ran hard all the time and you see how much it means to the fans. "We knew before the game that it was very important for the club to gain these extra finances. For Liverpool, this result is very, very important." Benitez hailed Gerrard for his match-winning strike four minutes from time and also the Anfield crowd for sticking by their side after they had fallen a goal behind at the interval. The Reds scored three second-half goals in a sensational comeback capped by Gerrard's 20-yard drive. He added: "Steven can play all over the pitch and he influences every part of the game. "I have said to him many times that he has the freedom because he has talent and is very important to us. "I felt that the difference between the sides was really our supporters, I cannot thank them enough. "I want to say thank-you to the supporters, they were magnificent to help us achieve this result." Gerrard admitted he thought they were going out of the Champions League after trailing 1-0 at half-time. He said: "I'd be lying if I thought we were going through when we were losing at half-time. "We had a mountain to climb, but we have climbed it and credit to everyone. "That was one of the best goals I have scored, I caught it sweet, I haven't caught one like that for ages. It was a massive night for me and the team." Liverpool's win means all four of England's Champions League representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time.
English clubs make Euro history All four of England's Champions League representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time. Arsenal and Chelsea are seeded as group winners, while runners-up Manchester United and Liverpool are not. Rules stipulate that teams from the same country or group will be kept apart in the draw on 17 December. The favourites are Chelsea and Barcelona, and Real Madrid, the two Milan sides, Juventus and Bayern Munich are among the 16 still in the hat. Steven Gerrard's last-gasp wonder-strike secured qualification for against Olympiakos on Wednesday evening. AC Milan, Bayer Leverkusen, Internazionale, Juventus, Lyon. who had already qualified, fielded a second-string side and went down 3-0 to Fenerbahce. AC Milan, Bayer Leverkusen, Internazionale, Juventus, Monaco. On Tuesday, finished top of their group with a 5-1 win over the Rosenborg after drawing four of their first five matches. Barcelona, Bayern Munich, Porto, Real Madrid, Werder Bremen , who had already qualified lost 2-1 to Porto as Jose Mourinho made an unhappy return to his former club. Barcelona, Bayern Munich, PSV Eindhoven, Real Madrid, Werder Bremen.
Ferguson puts faith in youngsters Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said he has no regrets after his second-string side lost 3-0 away at Fenerbahce in the Champions League. Ferguson said: "The good thing about being manager is that you are in control of which team to pick. "I care about United, that's important, so while I am disappointed at the result I am not at the team I selected. "This game was important for the young lads. They will remember it and next time they come they will be better." Ferguson admitted his side were well-beaten by the Turks, a result which meant they finished second in Group D behind Lyon. He added: "They'll know not to play like that again. We showed a lack of strength. But I have no complaints about the scoreline. "In the second half we had some good moments in attack. And in that situation, you have to take one chance. "But we didn't do that, so the game just petered out for us. "I didn't think it made much difference whether we won the group or finished second and I still don't. "We could get Inter, AC Milan and Juventus but Bayern, Barcelona and Real Madrid were among the runners-up. All we can do is let fate decide how it works out."
Beckham relief as Real go through David Beckham expressed his relief at Real Madrid's passage to the Champions League knockout phase. After Real's 3-0 win at Roma, the England skipper admitted another season of under-achievement would not be tolerated at the Bernabeu stadium. Beckham said: "It's expected of Madrid to get through, but it's a relief for the club and players to have won. "We lost momentum last season but we cannot afford to to go another season without winning anything." Real's finish as runners-up in their Champions League group means they cannot face his old club Manchester United in the next round. But Real could be drawn against other Premiership hopefuls, Arsenal or Chelsea, who won their respective groups. "It's going to be great whoever we play, even if we don't get either of the two English teams."
Man Utd through after Exeter test Manchester United avoided an FA Cup upset by edging past Exeter City in their third round replay. Cristiano Ronaldo scored the opener, slipping the ball between Paul Jones' legs after just nine minutes. United wasted a host of chances to make it safe as Jones made some great saves, but Wayne Rooney put the tie beyond doubt late on with a cool finish. Exeter had chances of their own, Sean Devine twice volleying wide and Andrew Taylor forcing Tim Howard to save. United boss Sir Alex Ferguson was taking few chances after their 0-0 draw in the first game and he handed starts to Paul Scholes and Ryan as well as Ronaldo and Rooney. Exeter began brightly with Devine and Steve Flack seeing plenty of the ball, but it did not take United long to assert their authority and the hosts soon found themselves a goal down. Scholes played a lovely pass in to Ronaldo on the left-hand side of the six-yard box and the Portuguese winger slid the ball between the legs of Jones to open the scoring. United sensed a chance to finish the tie as a contest early on and Ronaldo blazed over before Jones saved well from Scholes and then Rooney. The visitors' pressure by now was incessant and Rooney had another shot blocked while Ronaldo slammed well over the bar again from a good position. Just before the break Giggs had a golden chance to double the advantage, but the Welshman dragged a left-foot effort badly wide from 10 yards. In stoppage time Exeter created their best chance as Alex Jeannin swung in a cross from the left that Devine managed to flick goalwards, but the ball flew wide of Howard's goal. The Grecians came out after the break in determined fashion and Howard had to show safe hands to collect two searching crosses into the United box. Rooney looked like he might have sealed the result with a turn and shot but the ball stuck in the St James Park mud and Jones raced back to gather on the goalline. Moments later Devine had the chance to make himself a hero, but he could only volley Jeannin's brilliant cross wide of Howard's goal after being left unmarked six yards out. After Rooney had completely messed up a free-kick 20 yards out Taylor showed him how it should be done, his stunning drive from distance forcing a flying stop from Howard. The home crowd were baying for a goal and they did get the ball into the net only for Devine's low effort to be ruled out for an obvious offside. The persistent Rooney eventually rounded Jones with three minutes to go and slotted into an empty net to book a home tie with Middlesbrough in the fourth round. Jones, Hiley, Sawyer, Gaia, Jeannin, Moxey, Taylor (Martin 89), Ampadu (Afful 69), Clay, Flack (Edwards 74), Devine. Subs Not Used: Rice, Todd. Ampadu, Clay. Howard, Phil Neville, Gary Neville, O'Shea, Fortune, Giggs (Saha 70), Miller (Fletcher 66), Scholes, Djemba-Djemba (Silvestre 80), Ronaldo, Rooney. Subs Not Used: Ricardo, Bellion. Ronaldo 9, Rooney 87. 9,033. P Dowd (Staffordshire).
Hamm bows out for US Women's football legend Mia Hamm has played her final game. Hamm, 32, who officially retired after this year's Athens Olympics, took to the field for the last time to help the US claim a 5-0 win over Mexico. Hamm ends her career as the most prolific scorer - male or female - in international football, with 158 goals in 276 games for the US. She was twice Fifa women's player of the year and won the World Cup in 1991 and 1999 and two Olympic golds. On her retirement, Hamm said: "There are mixed emotions. There are things in your life that you have had to put on the back-burner and you can focus more time and energy on that now. "I have to see what is out there and not commit to everything at the beginning." The friendly also saw the end of Julie Foudy and Joy Fawcett's US careers. Hamm will now embark on a new life with husband, Chicago Cubs shortstop Nomar Garciaparra, who was in the stands to watch her final game. He has just agreed a new deal with the Cubs after joining them in July.
Wenger rules out new keeper Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger says he has no plans to sign a new goalkeeper during the January transfer window. Wenger has brought in Manuel Almunia for the last three games for the out-of-form Jens Lehmann - but the Spaniard himself has been prone to mistakes. There have been suggestions that Wenger will swoop for a high-quality shot-stopper in the New Year. But he told the Evening Standard: "I don't feel it will be necessary to bring in a new goalkeeper in January." The Gunners manager refused to comment on the difficult start that 27-year-old Almunia has made to his career at Highbury. And he would not be drawn on whether Lehmann would return for the top-of-the table clash with Chelsea on Sunday. Almunia was at fault for Rosenborg's goal in Arsenal's 5-1 Champions League win on Tuesday and had some hairy moments in last week's win over Birmingham. But Wenger said earlier this week that his indifferent form was down to pressure caused by being under scrutiny from the media. "The debate has gone on too long. Everyone has an opinion and I do not have to add to it," Wenger added. Arsenal have been linked with Middlesbrough keeper Mark Schwarzer, Fulham's Edwin van der Sar and Parma's Sebastien Frey. And Wenger has no immediate plans to recall former England Under-21 international Stuart Taylor from his loan spell at Leicester.
Liverpool pledge to keep Gerrard Liverpool chief executive Rick Parry insists the club will never sell Steven Gerrard amid reports Chelsea will renew their bid to lure him from Anfield. Gerrard reiterated his desire to win trophies with the Reds after his superb Champions League winner on Wednesday. And Parry has moved to scotch claims that Chelsea could launch a £35m bid. "There is no chance of Stevie going in January," said Parry. "That just won't happen. Our intention is that we will never let him go." Gerrard scored a spectacular late goal to give Liverpool a 3-1 win over Olympiakos and book their place in the knockout stages. "Of course he is ambitious but so are we," Parry added. "We firmly believe that if we can satisfy his ambition he will remain a Liverpool player. "We have an open and straightforward relationship. We both know where we stand and that played a big part in his decision to stay last summer. If he was not so committed to Liverpool he would have gone by now." Gerrard had said before Wednesday's game he would consider leaving if the club was knocked out of Europe, with Real Madrid also believed to be monitoring his situation. "The main point I have made is I want to be in a Liverpool side which challenges for the Champions League and the title all the time," he said afterwards. "I want to be winning things with Liverpool, not somewhere else. "I am a fan as well and I think what I have said the supporters will agree with. "We have to build on wins like that, not just settle for a great win and then not progress any further. "My goal was one of the most important I have ever scored and I hope it turns out to be one of the most important for the club for a long time. "I know I put a lot of pressure on myself because of what I said, and I felt I needed a big performance, but I am not going to go around telling lies about how I feel." Reds manager Rafael Benitez believes Gerrard can win everything he wants to without moving clubs. "Steven can win all he wants with us and we need him. He has seen that we have a good team and we can do more things in the future," said Benitez. "But if we want to win more games, important games, we need Steven in the team. "We need his strength, the strong mentality he has and his quality. I think he likes and wants the responsibility of leading this team."
Pearce keen on succeeding Keegan Joint assistant boss Stuart Pearce has admitted he would like to succeed Kevin Keegan as manager at Manchester City. Keegan has decided to step down as City manager when his contract comes to an end in 18 months. "You don't have to be Einstein to realise there will be a manager's job available at a really good club," Pearce told BBC GMR. "I will certainly be applying for it, although whether the board deem me good enough to take it, I do not know." Pearce initially joined City as a player under Keegan in 2001 before becoming part of the coaching staff. He was promoted to joint assistant-manager following the departure of Arthur Cox last summer. The former England defender had a year as player-boss with Nottingham Forest eight seasons ago but has made no secret of his desire to have another crack at the job. He was linked with the manager's job at Oldham and Keegan has stated he would not get in the way if Pearce wanted to leave. But it now appears Pearce is keen to wait for his chance at City. He added: "By that time, I will have been here for five years so at least they will have had a good look at me and they are aware of my feelings with regard to being Kevin's successor. "Obviously, the issue is out of my hands but it is a fantastic job for anybody - I just hope it will be me."
Bomb threat at Bernabeu stadium Spectators were evacuated from Real Madrid's Bernabeu stadium on Sunday following a bomb scare during the game between the hosts and Real Sociedad. More than 70,000 people abandoned the ground with the score at 1-1 and only three minutes left to play. The Basque newspaper Gara apparently received a telephone call saying a bomb was due to explode at 2100 local time. But after searching the stadium with sniffer dogs, the police said that no explosive device had been found. "The police have said they have completed their search and have not found anything," said Real Madrid president Florentino Perez. "The best thing we can all do now is to put this nightmare behind us." Madrid midfielder Guti told private Spanish radio station Cadena Ser: "I have never seen this before and sport should be above it all." Real took the lead just before the break when Brazilian striker Ronaldo cracked home with his left foot. Sociedad levelled the match midway through the second half when Turkish striker Nihat Kahveci smashed home with an acrobatic finish. It is not yet clear if the remaining three minutes of the game will be played at a later date or if the result will be allowed to stand. If the result remains at 1-1, Real will drop to third place in the standings, 11 points behind leaders Barcelona, who snatched a late 2-1 win at Albacete on Saturday. Initial reports suggested the Basque separatist group ETA may be responsible for the bomb threat after issuing similar warnings before a series of small explosions in recent days. The Bernabeu was targeted by ETA on 1 May, 2002, when Madrid were about to play FC Barcelona in a Champions League semi-final. A car bomb exploded in a street outside the stadium and 17 people were slightly injured.
Chelsea hold Arsenal A gripping game between Arsenal and Chelsea ended with the honours finishing even at Highbury. Thierry Henry produced a sublime strike to put Arsenal ahead but John Terry levelled with a powerful header. Henry's quickly-taken free-kick put Arsenal back in front but Eidur Gudjohnsen equalised with a header from William Gallas' knockback. Henry missed a golden chance when he blazed a shot high late on and Arsenal also had a penalty appeal rejected. Henry's opener had given Arsenal the perfect start and set up an enthralling affair. The French striker headed a long Cesc Faregas ball back to Jose Antonio Reyes from the edge of the Chelsea area and immediately saw it headed back into his path from the Spaniard. And, with his back to goal, Henry finished with aplomb when he took one touch, turned and struck an angled strike past the despairing dive of keeper Petr Cech. Henry epitomised a determination about the Arsenal side but Chelsea appeared unruffled and equalised after 16 minutes. Gunners keeper Manuel Almunia, who got the nod ahead of Jens Lehmann, did well to save a well-struck Frank Lampard shot. But he could not keep out Terry's powered header from the resultant corner as Arsenal's weakness at set-pieces was again exposed. Almost immediately, Henry went close and Chelsea gathered the loose ball before going straight up the other end where Gudjohnsen fluffed an effort. Gudjohnsen did not make the same error minutes later when he struck a sweet shot only for Almunia to be equal to the task and save. The homes side regained the lead in controversial fashion when Robert Pires won a dubious free-kick. And, given the option to take the 25-yard set-piece quickly, Henry curled in a shot with Cech still organising his wall. This time Arsenal did not allow Chelsea to level so soon as they went into the break ahead. Chelsea brought striker Didier Drogba on to partner Gudjohnsen up front after the interval and the move reaped immediate reward. Lampard swung in a cross which Gallas knocked back across goal and a deft header from Gudjohnsen levelled matters again. Chelsea's main threat was coming from crosses and Lampard missed a great opportunity as he headed wide when left unmarked at the far post. The second half failed to live up to the thrilling pace of the opening period but there were flashes of brilliance. One of them came from the enigmatic Robben when he jinked his way through two Arsenal defenders only to see his poked shot saved by Almunia. Arsenal ended the match the stronger and worked a excellent chance for Henry who put a left-foot shot high from eight yards. Subtitute Robin van Persie could also have nicked a win for the Highbury outfit but frustratingly sidefooted just wide. Matthieu Flamini had a late penal appeal waved away before the final whistle which maintained Chelsea five-point Premiership lead over Arsenal. Almunia, Lauren, Toure, Campbell, Cole, Pires, Flamini, Fabregas, Reyes (Clichy 82), Bergkamp (Van Persie 82), Henry. Subs Not Used: Senderos, Hoyte, Lehmann. Cole. Henry 2, 29. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Ricardo Carvalho (Drogba 45), Terry, Gallas, Duff, Tiago (Bridge 45), Makelele, Lampard, Robben, Gudjohnsen (Parker 77). Subs Not Used: Kezman, Cudicini. Robben, Drogba, Lampard. Terry 17, Gudjohnsen 46. 38,153 G Poll (Hertfordshire).
Real will finish abandoned match Real Madrid and Real Socieded will play the final six minutes of their match, which was abandoned on Sunday because of a bomb scare. The Bernabeu was evacuated with the score at 1-1 and two minutes of normal time remaining in the game. The teams will now play the final two minutes, plus four minutes of injury time, on 5 January. Brazilian Ronaldo and England captain David Beckham had to wait in the street in their kit after the abandonment. Real Sociedad president Jose Luis Astiazaran said: "We thought the best thing was to play the time remaining." Hundreds of fans streamed across the pitch on their way to the exits after the game was called off. Tourists and fans took advantage of the opportunity for a photograph between the famous stadium's goalposts. The two clubs met the Spanish FA on Monday and Astiazaran added: "We thought about giving the game as concluded but after talking with the FA we decided there was no precedent for that and the best thing was to play the time that was remaining." Real Madrid director of sport Emilio Butragueno praised the spectators inside the ground for their conduct. "I'd like to highlight the behaviour of the fans, who showed great maturity and it was an example of good citizenship," he said. Butragueno confirned, before confirming that Tuesday's charity match - which has been billed as "Ronaldo's friends against Zidane's friends" - will go ahead as planned. "I'd also like to take the chance to say that tomorrow's game will take place," Butragueno declared of the "Partido contra la Pobreza" (Game Against Poverty). He added: "Football is important for society and we want to show that. "We also think that football should be a fiesta, we had programmed and people deserve to enjoy the game."
Poll explains free-kick decision Referee Graham Poll said he applied the laws of the game in allowing Arsenal striker Thierry Henry's free-kick in Sunday's 2-2 draw with Chelsea. Keeper Petr Cech was organising his defensive wall when Henry's quick free-kick flew in, which angered Chelsea. "The whistle doesn't need to be blown. I asked Henry 'do you want a wall?'. He said 'can I take it please?' He was very polite. I said 'yes'," said Poll. "I deal with the laws of the game. I deal with fact." Poll added: "I gave the signal for him to take it. That's what he did. "The same thing happened when I refereed Chelsea against West Ham in an FA Cup replay two years ago - when Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink scored - and I don't remember them complaining about that." Henry explained why he paused before striking the ball for the goal, which put Arsenal 2-1 ahead. Henry told BBC Radio Five Live: "The ref asked me if I wanted 10 yards or if I wanted to take it straight away and I said that I wanted to take it straight away. He said to me, 'go'. "It looks a bit strange because I took my time. I was waiting for Eidur Gudjohnsen to move and give me some space. "At one point, he turned and that's when I tried it." Former referees' chief Philip Don backed Poll's decision to allow the strike. "The advantage should go to the non-offending team. On this occasion it was Arsenal," Don told BBC Radio Five Live. "Referees have been told to ask the player 'do you want to take the quick free-kick?' or 'do you want me to get the wall back 9.15 metres?' "If they say 'quick', the referee tends to move away and allow the kick." Don was head of the referees for the Premier League and revealed all clubs were informed of free-kick options. "We spoke to all the Premier League clubs as well as all the Football League clubs in the summer of 2003 explaining what the situation was," he added "We gave them the option of either the quick free-kick or the 'ceremonial' free-kick. Players and clubs were aware of what referees were doing."
Solskjaer raises hopes of return Manchester United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said he hoped to return next season following a career-threatening injury to his right knee. The 31-year-old Norway international had surgery in Sweden in August to transplant cartilage into the joint. "I'm in no doubt that I'll play again," Solskjaer told Aftenposten Daily. "The problem will be the speed but we're talking about eight months' time. It's going as it should with the knee. I'm slavishly following a programme." Solskjaer last played for United as a late substitute in May's FA Cup final win over Millwall. His contract with United runs out in 2006, by which time he will have been at the Premier League club for 10 years.
Dunne keen to commit to Man City Richard Dunne is ready to commit his long-term future to Manchester City after turning his career around. He was once threatened with the sack by City boss Kevin Keegan but has since responded with impressive performances, prompting interest from other clubs. Early talks have taken place and the defender said: "Hopefully something will be sorted out as soon as possible. "I definitely want to stay at City because I have really improved as a player here." Newcastle boss Graeme Souness is said to have been impressed enough by Dunne's turnaround in form to be ready to make a bid for the big stopper in the January transfer window. But the 25-year-old Dubliner underlined his intention to stay at Eastlands. He added: "It's nice to be linked with top clubs but the important thing is this one and what we do. "I really enjoy it at City and I want to keep that going." Keegan is expected to be told there will be no funds to bring in fresh faces in January. Dunne's professionalism was famously questioned by Keegan, who ordered the defender home after he allegedly turned up for training in a dishevelled state. But Dunne is keen to put that period of his life behind him and said: "I've grown up a lot and the manager sees me as one of the most experienced players in the squad. "I've played more games than any other outfield players this season so I can't be regarded as being a kid any more. "I have to use that as added pressure to perform and apart from the games at Newcastle and Middlesbrough, defensively we've done quite well." Keegan is set for another boost when goalkeeper Nicky Weaver makes his long-awaited return in a reserve game at Blackburn on Tuesday. Former England Under-21 keeper Weaver has missed nearly three full seasons with a succession of knee injuries, which eventually needed pioneering transplant surgery earlier this year.
Bates seals takeover Ken Bates has completed his takeover of Leeds United. The 73-year-old former Chelsea chairman sealed the deal at 0227 GMT on Friday, and has bought a 50% stake in the club. He said: "I'm delighted to be stepping up to the mantel at such a fantastic club. I recognise Leeds as a great club that has fallen on hard times. "We have a lot of hard work ahead to get the club back where it belongs in the Premiership, and with the help of our fans we will do everything we can." Bates bought his stake under the guise of a Geneva-based company known as The Forward Sports Fund. He revealed that part of his plan is to buy back Leeds' Elland Road stadium and Thorp Arch training ground in due course. "It's going to be a tough jon and the first task is to stabilise the cash flow and sort out the remaining creditors," Bates added. "But there is light at the end of a very long tunnel. For the past year it has been a matter of firefighting - now we can start running the club again." Outgoing Leeds chairman Gerald Krasner said: "This deal ensures the medium to long term survival of the club and I believe Mr Bates' proposals are totally for the benefit of the club. "We are content that under Mr Bates, Leeds United will continue to consolidate and move forward. "When we took over Leeds United in March 2004, the club had a debt of £103m, since that date, my board has succeeded in reducing the debt to under £25m. "We worked tirelessly to solve all of the problems at Leeds United. "Eighty percent of the problems have already been overcome and we came to this agreement with Mr Bates to secure its ongoing success." Krasner revealed that his consortium has been asked to remain in the background at the club for an undisclosed period to help ensure a smooth hand-over. He will stay on in an unpaid capacity while Peter Lorimer will continue in his role as director and point of contact for the fans and Peter McCormick will serve as a consultant to the incoming board. The other outgoing directors have agreed to leave their loans of £4.5m in the company for the next four years. On Leeds' new-look board it is understood that Lorimer will be joined by former Chelsea finance director Yvonne Todd and Bates' lawyer Mark Taylor. Krasner refused to give any details of the finances involved in the takeover. He told BBC Five Live: "I am not going into the figures. If Ken wants to give them up that is up to him. I can not tell you what the money will be used for. "This dea l is not about money for the current board. In the last four months I never saw any cheques until this week from one person. I am not stretching figures, we don't discuss internal arrangements." Bates stepped down as Chelsea chairman in March last year following Roman Abramovich's £140m takeover at Stamford Bridge. In May, he made a proposal to invest £10m in Sheffield Wednesday, but this was rejected by the club. Sebastien Sainsbury had been close to a takeover of Leeds but withdrew his £25m offer last week. His efforts failed after he revealed it would take £40m to stage a takeover, and that the club will also lose £10m over the next six months. The club was on the brink of administration - and the deduction of 10 points by the Football League - before Bates' arrival but his investment has spared them that prospect.
Ferguson rues failure to cut gap Boss Sir Alex Ferguson was left ruing Manchester United's failure to close the gap on Chelsea, Everton and Arsenal after his side's 1-1 draw with Fulham. Premiership leaders Chelsea and the Gunners endured a 2-2 stalemate on Sunday, giving United the chance to make up some ground in the league. But Ferguson said: "I think what makes it so bad is that both our rivals dropped points at the weekend. "It was a great opportunity - and we haven't delivered." United went ahead through Alan Smith in the 33rd minute before Bouba Diop's superb 25-yard strike cancelled out the visitors' lead in the 87th minute. Ferguson described the result as an "absolute giveaway" after United had earlier missed a host of opportunities to finish off the encounter. He said: "It was a good performance - some of the football was fantastic - but we just didn't finish them off. "In fairness, it's a fantastic strike from the Fulham player." The result leaves Ferguson's side fourth in the league on 31 points - four points behind Arsenal and a further five back from Chelsea.
Old Firm pair handed suspensions Celtic's Henri Camara and Nacho Novo of Rangers have both been suspended for offences missed by the referee in a recent Old Firm game. Both were given automatic one-match bans and 12 additional disciplinary points for their actions. That means Novo will miss a further two games because of his prior record. Camara will miss one additional game. Novo was found guilty of stamping on Celtic's Stephen Pearson. Camara was punished for kicking Gregory Vignal. "I'm extremely disappointed. I don't know if there's a lot to add to that," said Rangers manager Alex McLeish of Novo's punishment. "But what I will say is that I'm at a loss as to why that incident should be picked up and highlighted when there were so many other incidents during the game." Both players will miss this weekend's games when Celtic host Dundee United and Rangers visit Kilmarnock unless they decide to appeal. The additional bans come into effect from 28 December meaning Camara will also be unavailable for the home game against Livingston while Novo will miss the meetings with Dundee United and Dunfermline. An SFA spokesman said: "They have seven days to appeal but with matches coming along at the weekend they would need to do so before Friday. "But if they do appeal it won't be heard before this weekend because it takes a bit of time to seat up an appeals tribunal." Meanwhile, Bob Malcolm and Rangers have been informed by letter as to the outcome of the hearing regarding his reaction to Rangers being awarded a penalty in the same game. Malcolm, a substitute on the day, was taken from the Rangers dug-out and spoken to by police about an alleged gesture he made. But the SFA would not detail what, if any, punishment Malcolm would receive. "Once Rangers receive our letter we will be in a position to make a comment on the findings," added the spokesman.
Anelka apologises for criticism Manchester City striker Nicolas Anelka has issued an apology for criticising the ambitions of the club. Anelka was quoted in a French newspaper as saying he would like to play in the Champions League for a bigger club. But chairman John Wardle said: "I've spoken to Nicolas and he's apologised for anything that might have been mistakenly taken from the French press. "We are a big club. Nicolas told me that he agrees with me that we are a big club." Wardle was speaking at the club's annual general meeting, where he also confirmed the club had not received any bids for the former Arsenal and Real Madrid striker. The club still owe French club PSG £5m from the purchase of Anelka in May 2002. He has been linked with a move to Barcelona and Liverpool, and Reds skipper Steven Gerrard also revealed he is an admirer from his time on loan at Anfield. But Wardle added: "There's been no bids for Nicolas Anelka. No-one has come to me and said I would like to buy Nicolas Anelka. "If a bid comes in for Nicolas Anelka I will speak to the board and then speak to Kevin Keegan. "If there was a bid and it was a bid of substance and worth taking then between us we'd decide. "We still owe some money on Nicolas which we have clear out, so it would have to be above that." Wardle did stress that the club was not inviting any offers for England winger Shaun Wright-Phillips. He added: "I've no intention of selling Shaun Wright-Phillips. "If someone comes with a silly bid I'll have to discuss it. "But we're not putting him on the shelf to sell. He is the heart and soul of this club and has his heart and sole in this club, and he would be very upset if I put him in the shop window. "He was an academy kid here, he's just signed a new four-year deal, I don't think he'd do that unless he wanted to play for Manchester City Football Club." City recently announced debts of £62m, but Wardle confirmed they would try and find funds to bring in players in the January transfer window. He said: "Like Kevin I'd like to see some players come in. We've got to see what we can do - whether it's a on a Bosman or not. "We will try to be creative to generate some funds. But maybe we have to start looking at clubs like Everton and Bolton to see how they have been dealing in the transfer market and do a similar type of thing."
Ferguson rues failure to cut gap Boss Sir Alex Ferguson was left ruing Manchester United's failure to close the gap on Chelsea, Everton and Arsenal after his side's 1-1 draw with Fulham. Premiership leaders Chelsea and the Gunners endured a 2-2 stalemate on Sunday, giving United the chance to make up some ground in the league. But Ferguson said: "I think what makes it so bad is that both our rivals dropped points at the weekend. "It was a great opportunity - and we haven't delivered." United went ahead through Alan Smith in the 33rd minute before Bouba Diop's superb 25-yard strike cancelled out the visitors' lead in the 87th minute. Ferguson described the result as an "absolute giveaway" after United had earlier missed a host of opportunities to finish off the encounter. He said: "It was a good performance - some of the football was fantastic - but we just didn't finish them off. "In fairness, it's a fantastic strike from the Fulham player." The result leaves Ferguson's side fourth in the league on 31 points - four points behind Arsenal and a further five back from Chelsea.
Everton's Weir cools Euro hopes Everton defender David Weir has played down talk of European football, despite his team lying in second place in the Premiership after beating Liverpool. Weir told BBC Radio Five Live: "We don't want to rest on our laurels and say we have achieved anything yet. "I think you start taking your eye off the ball if you make statements and look too far into the future. "If you start making predictions you soon fall back into trouble. The only thing that matters is the next game." He said: "We are looking after each other and hard work goes a long way in this league. We have definitely shown that. "Also injuries and suspensions haven't cost us too badly and we have a lot of self-belief around the place."
Spain coach faces racism inquiry Spain's Football Federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach Luis Aragones over racist comments about Thierry Henry. If found guilty Aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about £22,000. The federation had initially declined to take action against Aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in October. But its president Angel Maria Villar changed his mind after a request by Spain's anti-violence commission. Aragones insisted the comments, made to Henry's Arsenal club-mate Jose Antonio Reyes, were meant to motivate the player, and were not intended to be offensive. "I never intended to offend anyone, and for that reason I have a very easy conscience," he said at the time. "I'm obliged to motivate my players to get the best results. "As part of that job, I use colloquial language, with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world. " England's players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against Spain in Madrid last month. But the storm increased following racist chanting by Spanish fans at England's black players during the game, which Spain won 1-0. Spain's minister of sport Jaime Lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the Federation's decision. "Everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations, and make sure they do not give a negative image," he said. "We are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism."
Spain coach faces racism inquiry Spain's Football Federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach Luis Aragones over racist comments about Thierry Henry. If found guilty Aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about £22,000. The federation had initially declined to take action against Aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in October. But its president Angel Maria Villar changed his mind after a request by Spain's anti-violence commission. Aragones insisted the comments, made to Henry's Arsenal club-mate Jose Antonio Reyes, were meant to motivate the player, and were not intended to be offensive. "I never intended to offend anyone, and for that reason I have a very easy conscience," he said at the time. "I'm obliged to motivate my players to get the best results. "As part of that job, I use colloquial language, with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world. " England's players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against Spain in Madrid last month. But the storm increased following racist chanting by Spanish fans at England's black players during the game, which Spain won 1-0. Spain's minister of sport Jaime Lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the Federation's decision. "Everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations, and make sure they do not give a negative image," he said. "We are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism."
Benitez deflects blame from Dudek Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has refused to point the finger of blame at goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek after Portsmouth claimed a draw at Anfield. Dudek fumbled a cross before Lomana LuaLua headed home an injury-time equaliser, levelling after Steven Gerrard put Liverpool ahead. Benitez said: "It was difficult for Jerzy. It was an unlucky moment. "He was expecting a cross from Matthew Taylor and it ended up like a shot, so I don't blame him for what happened." Benitez admitted it was a costly loss of two points by Liverpool, who followed up their derby defeat against Everton with a disappointing draw. He said: "We had many opportunities but didn't score and, in the end, a 1-0 lead was not enough. "If you don't have any chances you have to think of other things, but when you are creating so many chances as we are there is nothing you can say to the players. It was a pity. "We lost two points, but we have one more point in the table. Now we have another difficult game against Newcastle and we have to recover quickly from that."
Bellamy fined after row Newcastle have fined their Welsh striker Craig Bellamy two weeks' wages - about £80,000 - following his row with manager Graeme Souness. But Bellamy, 25, has not been put on the transfer list, although he did not train with the first team on Tuesday. Magpies chairman Freddy Shepherd told the Newcastle Evening Chronicle: "It is not about money. It is about a player thinking he is bigger than this club. "No individual is, be it the chairman, the manager or a player." Souness dropped Bellamy for Sunday's game against Arsenal, claiming the Welshman had feigned injury after being asked to play out of position. "When I heard what the manager was saying I was in shock," Bellamy said. "I thought 'not only has he gone behind my back, he's lying'," he said in response to Souness' remarks. And the Wales international refused to apologise. "I won't apologise because I have done nothing wrong," he told the Evening Chronicle. "There's no doubt about it, I am out of here." The difficult relationship between Souness and Bellamy boiled over at the weekend, and has led to a war of words in the media. Bellamy's claim that Souness had lied about the background to the bust-up was strongly denied by Shepherd, who accused the striker of "cheating" the club. "I wish to put the record straight regarding the Bellamy situation," said Shepherd. "Craig walked off the training ground saying his hamstring was tight (on Friday), but what he failed to reveal was that he had told other members of the squad before training that he intended to feign injury. "When Graeme discovered this he immediately ordered Bellamy to attend a meeting in my office. "At that meeting Bellamy admitted to Graeme and I that he had told the players that he was going to "fake" an injury in training and walk off. "He also agreed at that meeting to apologise to his team-mates for his behaviour. He didn't do this which resulted in the action taken by the manager at the weekend, which I fully support. "In my book this is cheating on the club, the supporters, the manager and his own team-mates. "He is paid extremely well and I consider his behaviour to be totally unacceptable and totally unprofessional." Bellamy's latest outburst would appear to make his chances of a first-team recall remote. But even before Newcastle said the player would not be sold, Bellamy insisted he had no intention of handing in a transfer request. "I don't want the fans to think for one minute that I wouldn't play for this club," he said. "I'd play anywhere for this club, even in goal. "It's a very difficult situation for me at the moment but I'd never ask to leave this club. "This club means so much to me. I couldn't do it because I know I couldn't come back here and play against Newcastle. It would hurt too much."
McClaren eyes Uefa Cup top spot Steve McClaren wants his Middlesbrough team to win their Uefa Cup group by beating Partizan Belgrade. Boro have already qualified for the knockout stages alongside Partizan and Villareal, at the expense of Lazio. But boss McClaren is looking for a victory which would mean they avoid a team that has played in the Champions League in Friday's third-round draw. "To need a win to finish top is fantastic, but it is going to be a tough one," McClaren said. "When the draw was made, I thought it was the toughest group of them all - and so it has proved. "Lazio were favourites, Villarreal have been semi-finalists, and Partizan have fantastic experience in Europe. "The pleasing thing is we did the business in the first two games. "Winning those two has put us in a great position and it has been a fantastic experience playing these teams."
Spurs to sign Iceland U21 star Tottenham are primed to snap up Iceland Under-21 international Emil Hallfredsson after he impressed on trial at White Hart Lane. The 20-year-old midfielder, who plays for FH Hafnarfjordur, also starred in the Uefa Cup match against Scottish side Dunfermline earlier this season. Spurs have agreed a fee for the player, who has yet to agree personal terms. "He had offers from two other clubs but he decided to come to Tottenham," said Spurs sporting director Frank Arnesen. "He is a left-sided player, a position we have been looking at and he showed so much talent in his time here that we decided to take him. "It's down the road of bringing in talent, good prospects and giving them a place at Tottenham where they can improve."
McLeish ready for criticism Rangers manager Alex McLeish accepts he is going to be criticised after their disastrous Uefa Cup exit at the hands of Auxerre at Ibrox on Wednesday. McLeish told BBC Radio Five Live: "We were in pole position to get through to the next stage but we blew it, we absolutely blew it. "There's no use burying your head in the sand, we know we are going to get a lot of criticism. "We have to take it as we have done in the past and we must now bounce back." McLeish admitted his team's defending was amateurish after watching them lose 2-0 to Guy Roux's French side. "I'm very disappointed because we didn't give ourselves a chance, losing the first goal from our own corner. It was amateur," he added. "The early goal in the second half gave us a mountain to climb and we never created the same kind of chances as we did in the first half. "It's difficult to take positives from the game. We've let the fans down."
O'Leary agrees new Villa contract Aston Villa boss David O'Leary signed a three-and-a-half year contract extension on Thursday, securing his future at the club until summer 2008. O'Leary's future was in question, but Villa chairman Doug Ellis said he was happy to secure the deal. "David's record since his arrival in 2003 is excellent and he shares the board's amibitions in taking this club forward," he told Villa's website. "For this reason it was important we got this right." O'Leary put pen to paper after deals were sorted for his right-hand men Roy Aitken and Steve McGregor. "It was important to me Roy and Steve, an integral part of my team, should stay for the same time," O'Leary said on Thursday ahead of signing his new deal. "Someone has to try and put Aston Villa back where they should belong and I'm up for the challenge."Earlier in December, there were rumours O'Leary would quit if he is not offered a new deal before the end of the season. But he denied that, saying he was happy to take on the challenge of improving Villa's fortunes in the long term. "I want to make sure by the end of the five years I would have been in charge that Villa are achieving top six finishes in the Premiership on a regular basis," said O'Leary, who took over at Villa Park in May 2003. "But to achieve that, and take the next step forward, we do need to bring in quality players. "I would like a couple next month if at all possible to set us on the way." Meanwhile, O'Leary has rapped skipper Olof Mellberg for his comments before Sunday's derby with Birmingham. Mellberg spoke of his dislike of Villa's rivals ahead of the match, which Steve Bruce's side won 2-1. "I've had more than a quiet word with Olof. It's been said within the whole group, not as a one-to-one," he told Villa's website. "You shouldn't leave yourself open to be shot down. You shouldn't give people the chance to take cheap shots at you and he set himself up for that."
Gronkjaer agrees switch to Madrid Jesper Gronkjaer has agreed a move to Atletico Madrid from Birmingham City. The 27-year-old winger spent just five months at St Andrews following a £2.2m move from Chelsea in July after playing for Denmark at Euro 2004. He is set to move during the January transfer window in a deal rumoured to be about £1.4m, subject to a medical. "We will meet with the player's representative to finalise the contract and decide when he will sign," said Atletico sporting director Toni Munoz. Gronkjaer has been targeted by Blues fans and was sarcastically applauded when taken off against Everton last month. Boss Steve Bruce had said that he would be happy to let the Danish international go if the price was right. He added: "I'm not going to say the decision to let him go is down to the fans' reaction towards him. "He has had a tough time since the summer with the loss of his mother and finding it difficult to adjust to a new club and a different area. "He has been terrific and not missed a day's training and is someone if your daughter brought them home you would be delighted. "It just hasn't quite worked out here for him. But we'd like to get back most of what we spent."
Benitez 'to launch Morientes bid' Liverpool may launch an £8m January bid for long-time target Fernando Morientes, according to reports. The Real Madrid striker has been linked with a move to Anfield since the summer and is currently behind Raul, Ronaldo and Michael Owen at the Bernabeu. Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez is keen to bolster his forward options with Djibril Cisse out until next season. "If there is an attractive propostition it could be I would be keen to leave," admitted the 28-year-old Morientes. He added: "Unfortunately, I'm not in control of the situation. I'm under contract to Real and they will make any decisions." The fee could put Liverpool off a prospective deal but Real are keen to net the cash as they are reported to be preparing a massive summer bid for Inter Milan striker Adriano. The Reds are currently sixth in the Premiership, 15 points behind leaders Chelsea.
Robertson out to retain Euro lure Hearts manager John Robertson hopes a place in the knock-out stages of the Uefa Cup could help keep some of his out-of-contract players at the club. "It could help. If we get through and have another European tie it may encourage players to stay at least until the end of the season," he said. "If we manage to get through it shows how well the club's progressing. "They have to think whether they are going to get other clubs like that should they decide to move on." A win for Robertson's side against Ferencvaros would put them through to the last 32 if Basle fail to beat Feyenoord. "It's very much the player's prerogative but the fact that we've been playing European football for the last three or four years is obviously an incentive," added Robertson. "But we want players who want to play for the football club, who are committed and a run in Europe always helps a little bit." With the game being played at Murrayfield instead of Tynecastle because of Uefa regulations, Robertson sees both positive and negative aspects to the change of venue. "The pitch is not in the greatest condition. The Heineken Cup game was there at the weekend and the pitch is a bit threadbare," he said. "It's not ideal but it's the same for both teams so we just have to go out and there and perform. That's the most important thing." But he added: "If Tynecastle could have hosted 30,000 it would have been fantastic but that's one of the benefits of Murrayfield - it allows us to bring even more of our supporters into it. "There will be a good atmosphere and the Hearts fans have an important role to play. "We need their encouragement, we need them to get right behind the side and make it as good an atmosphere as possible. "Hopefully the players will respond to that and I know they will because it's a fantastic European night for the club."
Campbell rescues Arsenal Sol Campbell proved to be an unlikely match-winner to earn Arsenal a hard-fought win at Portsmouth. The England defender lashed home a 25-yard shot for his first goal in 16 months to take Arsenal back into second spot, five points behind Chelsea. But before Campbell scored the best two chances of the game fell to Pompey striker Ricardo Fuller. In the first half he blasted wide when clear, and his control let him down in the second half when well placed. Portsmouth got plenty of bodies behind the ball to deny Arsenal space in the early stages. But their marking was slack at a corner and Patrick Vieira should have done better when the ball fell to him 16 yards out. A mistake by Arjan de Zeeuw let Thierry Henry in behind the Pompey defence on 17 minutes but as he bore down on goal Linvoy Primus got in a saving tackle. With just Fuller as an out-and-out striker, Portsmouth's shape made life difficult for Arsenal. But a delightful touch by Robin van Persie gave Henry a sight of goal, although the angle was too tight for his shot to trouble Jamie Ashdown. Ashdown caused hearts to flutter on 28 minutes when he missed his punch at a corner and Kolo Toure headed just wide and, as Arsenal began to press, Van Persie blasted over a good opportunity after Henry had set him up. Henry took a quick return pass from Vieira but Ashdown was out quickly to block, and there were some anxious seconds for Pompey as the ball ran loose before Matthew Taylor cleared. After playing second fiddle, Portsmouth should have taken the lead on 34 minutes. Referee Howard Webb played a good advantage to allow Steve Stone to send Gary O'Neil away but, having shrugged off Toure, the Pompey midfielder planted his shot wide from 10 yards. As half-time approached, Henry teased a shot through a ruck of players and inches wide. At the other end, Fuller broke clear but failed to hit the target as Toure closed him down. Fuller was given the best chance of the match so far on 48 minutes when Patrik Berger's break and slipped pass played him clear. But a poor first touch lost him the opportunity and even when he checked back and went down under Vieira's challenge, referee Webb was not interested. Fuller paid the price when he gave way on 55 minutes to Aiyegbeni Yakubu, who returned after six weeks out with a knee injury. But it needed alert reflexes and safe handling from Ashdown to cling on to Van Persie's shot as Henry sniffed for scraps. Portsmouth were growing in confidence and keeper Manuel Almunia had to stand his ground to beat away a powerful shot from Berger. Arsenal were struggling to find their rhythm but took the lead through the unlikely source of Campbell. The England defender needed little invitation as Pompey backed off to stride forward and lash a ferocious shot past Ashdown. Arsenal might have stretched their lead two minutes later when Mathieu Flamini escaped his marker to flash a header wide from Henry's free-kick. Almunia went full length to grab Berger's long-range shot, while Ashdown palmed away substitute Dennis Bergkamp's shot. Ashdown, Griffin, De Zeeuw, Primus, Taylor, Stone, O'Neil, Faye (Berkovic 83), Berger, LuaLua, Fuller (Yakubu 55). Subs not used: Hislop, Quashie, Cisse. Almunia, Lauren, Toure, Campbell, Cole, Pires, Flamini, Vieira, Clichy, Van Persie (Bergkamp 68), Henry. Subs not used: Lehmann, Fabregas, Senderos, Hoyte. Cole. Campbell 75. 20,170. H Webb (S Yorkshire).
Reds sink 10-man Magpies Titus Bramble's own goal put Liverpool on the comeback trail as injury-hit Newcastle were well beaten at Anfield. Patrick Kluivert's close-range finish put Newcastle ahead after 31 minutes, but they were pegged back as Bramble headed in Steven Gerrard's corner. Neil Mellor gave Liverpool the lead before half-time from Milan Baros' pass before the Czech added a third after rounding Shay Given on the hour. Newcastle then had Lee Bowyer sent off for two bookable offences. Liverpool brought back Luis Garcia after a hamstring injury, while Newcastle were forced to draft in Kluivert after Craig Bellamy was a late withdrawal with a back injury sustained in the warm-up. And Garcia should have crowned his return with a goal inside the opening minute when he took a pass from Baros but shot wildly over the top from eight yards. Olivier Bernard was only inches away from giving Newcastle the lead after 20 minutes, when he fired just wide from a free-kick 25 yards out. But Souness's side did go ahead 11 minutes later in highly controversial circumstances. Kluivert looked suspiciously offside when Kieron Dyer set Bowyer free, but the Dutchman was then perfectly placed to score from six yards. The lead lasted three minutes, with Liverpool back on terms as Bramble headed Gerrard's corner into his own net under pressure from Sami Hyypia. And Liverpool were ahead after 37 minutes when Baros slid a perfect pass into Mellor's path for the youngster to slip a slide-rule finish into Given's bottom corner. Garcia's finishing was wayward, and he was wasteful again in first-half injury time, shooting tamely at Given after good work by Xabi Alonso. Any hopes of a Newcastle recovery looked to be snuffed out on the hour when a brilliant turn and pass by Harry Kewell set Baros free and he rounded Given to score. Jermaine Jenas then missed a glorious chance to throw Newcastle a lifeline, shooting over from just eight yards out from Shola Ameobi's cross. Then Bowyer, who had already been booked for a foul on Alonso, was deservedly shown the red card by referee Graham Poll for a wild challenge on Liverpool substitute Florent Sinama-Pongolle. Dudek, Finnan, Hyypia, Carragher, Riise, Luis Garcia (Nunez 73), Gerrard, Alonso, Kewell (Traore 85), Baros, Mellor (Sinama Pongolle 75). Subs not used: Hamann, Harrison. Bramble 35 og, Mellor 38, Baros 61. Given, Andrew O'Brien, Elliott, Bramble, Bernard, Bowyer, Dyer (Ambrose 80), Jenas, Milner (N'Zogbia 72), Kluivert (Robert 58), Ameobi. Subs not used: Harper. Bowyer (77). Bowyer, Elliott, Bernard. Kluivert 32. 43,856. G Poll (Hertfordshire).
Strachan turns down Pompey Former Southampton manager Gordon Strachan has rejected the chance to become Portsmouth's new boss. The Scot was Pompey chairman Milan Mandaric's first choice to replace Harry Redknapp, who left Fratton Park for rivals Saints earlier in December. "I think it's a fantastic job for anybody apart from somebody who has just been the Southampton manager," Strachan told the BBC. Club director Terry Brady held initial talks with Strachan on Saturday. The former Scotland international added that joining Southampton's local rivals would not be a wise move. "It's got everything going for it but I've got too many memories of the other side and I don't want to sour those memories," he said. "Everything's right - it's 10 minutes away, there are good players there, a good set-up, a good atmosphere at the ground. "There's lots to do but it's not right for somebody who has just been the Southampton manager." Since Redknapp's departure, executive director Velimir Zajec and coach Joe Jordan have overseen first-team affairs. The duo had gone five matches unbeaten until Sunday's 1-0 defeat at home to champions Arsenal, but the club are still in a respectable 12th place in the Premiership table. Strachan left St Mary's in February, after earlier announcing his intention to take a break from the game at the end of the 2003-04 season. His previous managerial experience came at Coventry, whom he led for five years from 1996 to 2001.
Henry tipped for Fifa award Fifa president Sepp Blatter hopes Arsenal's Thierry Henry will be named World Player of the Year on Monday. Henry is on the Fifa shortlist with Barcelona's Ronaldinho and newly-crowned European Footballer of the Year, AC Milan's Andriy Shevchenko. Blatter said: "Henry, for me, is the personality on the field. He is the man who can run and organise the game." The winner of the accolade will be named at a glittering ceremony at Zurich's Opera house. The three shortlisted candidates for the women's award are Mia Hamm of the United States, Germany's Birgit Prinz and Brazilian youngster Marta. Hamm, who recently retired - is looking to regain the women's award, which she lost last year to striker Prinz. Fifa has changed the panel of voters for this year's awards. Male and female captains of every national team will be able to vote, as well as their coaches and Fipro - the global organisation for professional players.
Newcastle to join Morientes race Newcastle have joined the race to sign Real Madrid striker Fernando Morientes and scupper Liverpool's bid to snap up the player, according to reports. Liverpool were reported to have bid £3.5m for the 28-year-old Spanish international this week. But the Liverpool Echo newspaper has said Anfield boss Rafa Benitez will avoid a bidding war and instead turn his attentions to Nicolas Anelka. Real are believed to still want £7m before selling Morientes. Monaco are also in the race for the player they had on loan last season. Reports suggest Liverpool will lift their offer to £5m - the highest they are willing to go before bowing out of any deal. On Tuesday, Morientes had said: "I like Liverpool and I am pleased that a club of their stature want to buy me. I have told Madrid that I want it to happen. "Madrid know my situation and they know they must do something about me. They must sort out the situation by being sensible. "I am in a position where I want to play, and I will have to look elsewhere to do that. If Madrid do not want me then it's in the best interests of everyone that they are realistic. "I haven't spoken to Rafa Benitez but I have always appreciated his work and I would like to play for him. But Benitez could yet turn his attentions to the younger Anelka should Morientes be reluctant to pledge his future to Liverpool. Anelka previously played at Anfield under Gerard Houllier before sealing his permanent switch to Manchester City.
Blues slam Blackburn over Savage Birmingham have confirmed Blackburn made a bid for Robbie Savage - but managing director Karen Brady has called it "derisory". Rovers have reportedly offered £500,000 up front for the Wales star, 30, with the fee rising to £2.2m. But Brady told The Sun the bid was "a waste of fax paper and my time". She added: "The way things are going all this could affect the relationship between the clubs. They've got into Robbie's head. But he's not for sale." Savage's future at Birmingham has been the source of speculation for several weeks, with some fans criticising his performances for the club earlier in the season. However, good displays against West Brom and Aston Villa have impressed Blues fans. "The crowd gave me a massive standing ovation when I came off on Saturday which was nice," he said. "It was fantastic even though I was criticised by a number of them in recent weeks and on Saturday it showed how much I mean to them. "It's not for me to say (about transfer rumours), it's between the two clubs. "I haven't created the speculation myself, I haven't phoned every national newspaper saying, 'Blackburn are trying to buy me'. It's not up to me." Birmingham manager Steve Bruce insists he does not want to sell Savage. "A lot is said and written about Sav but he has been terrific for Birmingham City the last two and a half years," he said. "The fans love him because he epitomises them. He works hard, They like people like that and there are not many like him. "And why the hell should I sell him to someone else? I am not interested."
Gerrard happy at Anfield Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard has reiterated his desire to stay at Anfield and win trophies with the club. The 24-year-old England midfielder is determined to see out his contract, despite reported interest from Chelsea. He said: "I'm signed here for this season and another two so there is no situation. There's a lot of speculation but that's not down to me. "As club captain all I want to do is help us get back up the table and into the Champions League again." Gerrard looked set to move to Chelsea during the summer and speculation of a switch to Stamford Bridge has again arisen, with the January transfer window approaching. He raised doubts about his Reds future when he said he wanted the club to prove they were title challengers in the very near future or he might leave. Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez has insisted that Gerrard has promised him he wants to stay at Anfield. Benitez said: "I said to Steven that I was sure he wanted to stay here and he said 'I do'. "I then said to him 'Look, if you want to win titles, you want medals and you want Liverpool to have these things then I am going to need your help'. "I really think he wants to stay so now what we must do is make the squad stronger for him." Meanwhile, Gerrard has urged the Anfield board to sign Real Madrid striker Fernando Morientes in the January transfer window. Morientes, 28, has already expressed a willingness to come to England. Gerrard added: "He's a great player. He scores goals in the league, in cup competitions and also in the Champions League. "I don't think he'd be able to play for us in Europe this season but if we are able to get hold of him, we'd be getting ourselves a great player. "He'd have Spanish coaches, a Spanish manager and we have got three or four Spanish players here now so they'll help him settle in. "Rafael Benitez knows what he wants and he knows how to strengthen the squad he's got and if the right players become available at the right price I am sure we will strengthen. "It would certainly be nice to see a few new faces in January to freshen things up."
Beckham rules out management move Real Madrid midfielder David Beckham has no plans to become a manager when his playing career is over. "I am not interested in being a coach but I would like to have football schools," the England captain said on television station Canal Plus. "I have wanted to do that since I went to the Bobby Charlton school. I'm going to open one in London and one in LA. "My second passion is charity work - I am an ambassador for Unicef and it gives me great pride." But Beckham revealed that his immediate priority was winning the Spanish league title with Real Madrid. Real slipped to 13 points behind leaders Barcelona with a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Sevilla on Wednesday. Beckham admitted: "It's disappointing and frustrating to see the results, considering the team we have. "I would really like to win La Liga with Real Madrid - I have been here two years and we still have not done it." In a wide-ranging interview, Beckham also revealed that his sending-off against Argentina - and the resulting media storm - had been the most significant moment in his career. Asked for his worst memory, he said: "To be sent off against Argentina - it was not for the sending-off but for what happened afterwards. "I was lucky because I had a manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, who supported me and a strong family behind me but I believe that changed me. "I believe it changed me for the better."
Mexicans tracking unhappy Juninho Mexican outfit Red Sharks Veracruz hope to sign Juninho if the Brazilian decides to leave Celtic frustrated at his lack of first-team action. Their president, Gustavo Parente Sanchez, says Juninho "does not wish to remain in Scottish football anymore". Agent Brian Hassell insists that the 31-year-old Brazilian midfielder is determined to win back his place. "But, if the manager is not going to pick him, that's a different ball game," he told The Sun. "That's something we'd have to look at. Juninho deserves respect. He is not a little kid." Hassell warns that Juninho could reconsider his future at Celtic unless he is given a run of games by the end of the January transfer window. Juninho was signed from Middlesbrough during the summer, but he has failed to live up to high expectations and has lost his place to 18-year-old Aiden McGeady. "He has 50 caps for Brazil and he's the best signing Celtic ever made," insisted Hassell. "He wants to play for Martin O'Neill, but does Martin O'Neill want to play him? "Juninho is not someone who has come through the Celtic ranks. He deserves much more respect." Sanchez is bullish about his hopes of prising Juninho from the Scottish champions, although Hassell believes Mexico would not be his preferred destination. "We have already spoken with Juninho and he said, if he has no firm offer from a club in Spain, Veracruz will be his destination," Sanchez told his club's official website. Celtic manager O'Neill is no respecter of reputations. "The onus is on Juninho to force his way into the team," he said. "Players get a game on merit. That's the way it has always been and that is certainly the case at Celtic Park."
Celtic unhappy over Bulgaria date Martin O'Neill hopes to block Stilian Petrov's call-up by Bulgaria during Celtic's busy festive programme. The Celtic manager does not view the friendly against Valenciana - a region of Spain - on 28 December as important. "I can't say I was overly pleased at the fixture being played just after Christmas," said O'Neill. "We will have to speak with the Bulgarian FA. It's their prerogative for them to arrange a fixture and our prerogative how we handle it." Bulgaria's game comes between Celtic's Boxing Day meeting with Hearts and their 2 January fixture against Livingston. O'Neill believes the extra game will not help a midfielder whose season has already been affected by injury. "They have organised a game at a rather awkward time," he added. "When we were out playing Barcelona, I spoke with the Bulgarian manager, Hristo Stoichkov, and he mentioned this game to me. "We pay his wages, we are the ones that if an awkward fixture is going to be played at some stage or another it should be to our benefit, rather than anyone else. "I have said this before, but Bulgaria are the one nation who seem to organise a lot of friendly games."
Robben and Cole earn Chelsea win Cheslea salvaged a win against a battling Portsmouth side just as it looked like the Premiership leaders would have to settle for a point. Arjen Robben curled in a late deflected left-footed shot from the right side of Pompey's box to break the home side's brave resistance. Chelsea had been continually frustrated but Joe Cole added a second with a 20-yard shot in injury-time. Nigel Quashie had Pompey's best chance when his effort was tipped over. The Fratton Park crowd were in good voice as usual and, even though Portsmouth more than held their own, Chelsea still managed to carve out two early chances. Striker Didier Drogba snapped in an angled shot to force home keeper Shaka Hislop into a smart save while an unmarked Frank Lampard had a strike blocked by Arjan De Zeeuw. But Pompey chased, harried and unsettled a Chelsea side as the south-coast side started to gain the upper hand and almost took the lead through Quashie. The midfielder struck a swerving long range shot which keeper Petr Cech tipped over at full stretch. Pompey stretched Arsenal to the limit recently and were providing a similarly tough obstacle to overcome for a Chelsea team struggling to exert any pressure. Velimir Zajec's players stood firm as the visitors came out in lively fashion after the break but, just as they took a stranglehold of the match, the visitors launched a counter-attack. Drogba spun to get a sight of goal and struck a fierce shot which rocked keeper Hislop back as he blocked before Arjan de Zeeuw cleared the danger. The home side were also left breathing a sigh of relief when a Glen Johnson header fell to Gudjohnsen who had his back to goal in a crowded Pompey goalmouth. The Icelandic forward tried to acrobatically direct the ball into goal but put his effort over. But, just like against Arsenal, Portsmouth let in a late goal when Robben's shot took a deflection off Matthew Taylor on its way past a wrong-footed Hislop. And Cole put a bit of gloss on a hard-fought win when he put a low shot into the bottom of the Pompey net. Hislop, Griffin, Primus, De Zeeuw, Taylor, Stone (Cisse 76), Quashie (Berkovic 83), Faye, O'Neil, Kamara (Fuller 65), Yakubu. Subs Not Used: Berger, Ashdown. Kamara. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Gallas, Terry, Johnson, Duff, Makelele, Smertin (Cole 73), Lampard, Robben (Geremi 81), Drogba (Gudjohnsen 58). Subs Not Used: Cudicini, Bridge. Paulo Ferreira, Robben, Lampard. Robben 79, Cole 90. 20,210 A Wiley (Staffordshire).
Newcastle line up Babayaro Newcastle manager Graeme Souness is closing in on signing Chelsea defender Celestine Babayaro when the transfer window reopens. Souness is bidding to bolster his defence and, according to reports, contract negotiations are at an advanced stage with the player. Babayaro has been in the Premiership since 1997 when he moved to Chelsea for £2.25m from Anderlecht. But the 26-year-old has been surplus to requirements this season. Souness would not be drawn on specifics over individual players. But he said: "All I can tell you is that the chairman has worked really hard in the last couple of months to try to do deals. "We have said from day one we want to strengthen, and that is what we are hoping to do in the coming weeks."
Mourinho takes swipe at Arsenal Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho has attempted to pile the pressure on title rivals Arsenal ahead of the Gunners facing Newcastle on Wednesday. Arsenal will play the Magpies a day after Chelsea beat Portsmouth during a busy festive programme. And Mourinho said: "They always seem to have two or three days' rest in which to recover. Perhaps it's something to do with the television schedule. "All my players are tired, especially John Terry." Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho admitted his side were "lucky" to win at Fratton Park but is still unhappy with the amount of games in such a short space of time during this time of year. He added: "We have had to play two matches in three days which is foreign to many of my players and, although I understand the traditions of football here at this time of year, it is not good for your health to do it. "You can sit back and smoke cigars, one after another, and it is a good life, but it is not actually good for you. "Playing so many games is certainly not healthy, especially for teams who still have European commitment."
Wenger shock at Newcastle dip Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has admitted he is at a loss to explain why Newcastle are languishing in the bottom half of the table. The Gunners travel to St James' Park on Wednesday, with Newcastle 14th in the Premiership after a troubled season. And Wenger said: "At the beginning of the season you would expect them to be fighting for the top four. "I don't know how they got to be where they are. It looks to me from the outside that they have many injuries." Arsenal go into the game on the back of a 2-0 victory over Fulham on Sunday. And Wenger added: "The best way to prepare for a game is to win the previous one. We will go to Newcastle in good shape. "Fatigue won't play too big a part in the next few weeks as we have players coming back so I can rotate a bit more. "We do not play a season with 11 players and I believe that all of our squad deserve a chance in the team." Striker Thierry Henry, along with Robert Pires, scored against Fulham. And Henry afterwards described the display as "beautiful to watch". He said: "What matters is winning and the three points, of course. That is the only thing that really matters. But it is more enjoyable when you play like we did against Fulham. "We are playing as a team and that is important because there were some games when we maybe were not there as a team and suffered for that. Those were games we lost."
Ferguson hails Man Utd's resolve Manchester United's Alex Ferguson has praised his players' gutsy performance in the 1-0 win at Aston Villa. "That was our hardest away game of the season and it was a fantastic game of football, end-to-end with lots of good passing," said the Old Trafford boss. "We showed lots of character and guts and we weren't going to lose. "I look at that fixture and think we've been there and won, while Arsenal and Chelsea have yet to come and Villa may have some players back when they do." Ferguson also hailed senior stars Ryan Giggs and Roy Keane, who came off the bench for the injured John O'Shea. "Roy came on and brought a bit of composure to the midfield which we needed and which no other player has got. "Giggs was a tremendous threat and he brings tremendous penetration. "All we can do is maintain our form, play as we are and we'll get our rewards."
TV calls after Carroll error Spurs boss Martin Jol said his team were "robbed" at Manchester United after Pedro Mendes' shot clearly crossed the line but was not given. "The referee is already wearing an earpiece so why can't we just stop the game and get the decision right," said Jol after the 0-0 draw. "But at the end of the day it's so obvious that Pedro's shot was over the line it's incredible. "We feel robbed but it's difficult for the linesman and referee to see it." Mendes shot from 50 yards and United goalkeeper Roy Carroll spilled the ball into his own net before hooking it clear. Jol added: "We are not talking about the ball being a couple of centimetres or an inch or two over the line, it was a metre inside the goal. "What really annoys me is that we are here in 2005, watching something on a TV monitor within two seconds of the incident occurring and the referee isn't told about it. "We didn't play particularly well but I am pleased - even now - with a point, although we should have had three." Mendes could not believe the 'goal' was not given after seeing a replay. He said: "My reaction on the pitch was to celebrate. "It was a very nice goal, it was clearly over the line - I've never seen one so over the line and not given in my career. "It's really, really over. What can you do but laugh about it? It's a nice goal and one to keep in my memory even though it didn't count. "It's not every game you score from the halfway line." Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson sympathised with Tottenham and said the incident highlighted the need for video technology. "I think it hammers home what a lot of people have been asking for and that's that technology should play a part in the game," Ferguson told MUTV. "What I was against originally was the time factor in video replays. "But I read an article the other day which suggested that if a referee can't make up his mind after 30 seconds of watching a video replay then the game should carry on. "Thirty seconds is about the same amount of time it takes to organise a free-kick or take a corner or a goal-kick. So you wouldn't be wasting a lot of time. "I think you could start off by using it for goal-line decisions. I think that would be an opening into a new area of football." Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger also used the incident to highlight the need for video technology. "When the whole world apart from the referee has seen there should be a goal at Old Trafford, that just reinforces what I feel - there should be video evidence," said Wenger. "It's a great example of where the referee could have asked to see a replay and would have seen in five seconds that it was a goal."
FA charges Mourinho Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has been charged with improper conduct by the Football Association. The move follows comments on Chelsea TV after the Carling Cup semi-final first leg draw against Manchester United. Mourinho suggested United boss Sir Alex Ferguson had put pressure on referee Neale Barry at half-time. The Chelsea boss, who has until 14 February to respond, said: "In the second half it was whistle and whistle, fault and fault, cheat and cheat." However, the FA will not take action over comments on the same issue by Chelsea defender John Terry after the match. Terry said: "With most refs and being captain, you can maybe have a word, but he just wasn't willing to listen which was disappointing." In a statement, the FA said it had "reviewed the content and context of these comments, (and) decided that it is not appropriate to take formal disciplinary action."
Clean sweep impossible - Mourinho Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho says his side have little chance of winning all four major trophies this season. The Blues are seven points clear in the league after beating Middlesbrough, and into the Carling Cup semi-finals and the Champions League knockout stages. "We want to win something, but I think it is impossible to win all four trophies," Mourinho admitted. "But we have a good squad and we are trying. We have the FA Cup on Saturday and the Carling Cup next week." Despite a long injury list and a demanding schedule, Mourinho insists he will take each competition seriously. Chelsea face Scunthorpe on Saturday and he added: "We have watched them like we watch any other team. "We may change a few players for the game, if we can find any to change, butwe will play to win the FA Cup. We will play to win the Carling Cup. "Winning the Premiership or the Champions League is more important but wewill not turn any trophy down." The Premiership leaders have conceded only eight goals in 22 games and assistant boss Steve Clarke says that has put them on course for the title. "We can be a big threat because we've got great attacking players. But everything we've done has been based on a solid defence," he said. "It's the standard we've set for ourselves. Before the Christmas period we set ourselves a target of 12 points, we've got those 12 points so we're very happy. "We've said right from the start of the season that's our aim - we want to be champions. "There's a long way to go. We're out in front, we're enjoying being out in front and we're just focused on what we've got to do."
Wenger refuses to give up title Arsene Wenger refused to concede the title, despite Arsenal falling seven points behind Chelsea after their 1-1 draw with Manchester City at Highbury. He said: "We have to believe we can come back and give everything in every game. For us to give up and say Chelsea have won it would be criminal. "I am very concerned because we have never been so far behind and Chelsea do not look like dropping seven points. "But we will still give our best until the end of the season." Wenger blamed his side's mounting injury list, with Sol Campbell and Dennis Bergkamp among those unavailable, for the failure to beat City. "We were too inexperienced," he added. "That doesn't take anything away from the qualities of the team who played well when they settled. "We over played a little in our half in the first half and got caught. "But the mental qualities in the second half were outstanding. We had chance after chance and I feel sorry for the team, we should have got three points." The Gunners took to the field with youngsters Justin Hoyte, Philippe Senderos and Robin van Persie standing in for first-team regulars. But Wenger reiterated his intention to stay out of the transfer market and maintained his team will continue to push Chelsea all the way at the top of the table. "We will fight for our championship," he added. "Sometimes you have a draw like that. Do you want me to say it's over? I won't say that. All we can do is try to win our games and we won't give up." Arsenal found support in their attempts to overhaul the seven-point gap to Chelsea from City boss Kevin Keegan. "I still think Arsenal will be the champions, even though it doesn't look that way at the moment," he said. "Six or seven points is not enough when you've got quality sides around you and Arsenal could go on a run of 30 or 40 games again - they're an amazing side."
Henchoz prefers England to Gers Rangers could miss out on Liverpool defender Stephane Henchoz because he wants to continue playing in England. The Ibrox club have offered a deal to the Swiss international, 30, who is out of contract at the end of the season and has been linked with Southampton. More talks are planned between Rangers and the player's agent on Wednesday, but Henchoz said: "Actually I would like to stay in the Premiership. "Rangers' offer is not the only one and I will have to consider each of them." Henchoz seems certain to leave Liverpool after recently criticising manager Rafael Benitez. Rangers want him as a replacement for Jean-Alain Boumsong, who has moved to Newcastle for £8m. However, the former Blackburn defender is reported to have rejected an initial six-month contract offer as he wants at least an 18-month deal. Henchoz has played just four times for Liverpool this season and has yet to play in the league under Benitez.
Keane returns to Republic squad Manchester United skipper Roy Keane is back in the Republic of Ireland squad for the 9 February friendly against Portugal at Lansdowne Road. Keane was rested for the last game with Croatia in November but has been recalled as boss Brian Kerr prepares for a World Cup qualifier in Israel. Clinton Morrison, Stephen Carr, Andy O'Brien, Matt Holland, Andy Reid and Jon Macken are all back after injury. Chelsea winger Damien Duff is set to win his 50th international cap. Kerr has named a 27-man squad with the emphasis on getting the right blend between experience and youth. "This match is the perfect preparation for our next World Cup game against Israel in Tel Aviv on 26 March," said Kerr. "The likes of Stephen Elliott and Aiden McGeady have made excellent progress with Sunderland and Celtic in the last few months. "It is good to have players like them around to fit into the squad system if there are any injuries or suspensions." The Republic top Group Four after home wins against Cyprus and the Faroe Islands as well as draws away to France and Switzerland. Given (Newcastle), Kenny (Sheffield United), Murphy (Walsall), Carr (Newcastle), Finnan (Liverpool), O'Brien (Newcastle), Breen (Sunderland), Doherty (Norwich), Cunningham (Birmingham), Dunne (Manchester City), O'Shea (Manchester United), Maybury (Leicester), Miller (Manchester United), Quinn (Sheffield United), Roy Keane (Manchester United), Kavanagh (Cardiff), Holland (Charlton), Kilbane (Everton), Reid (Nottingham Forest), Duff (Chelsea), Barrett (Coventry), Lee (Cardiff), Elliott (Sunderland), McGeady (Celtic), Robbie Keane (Tottenham), Macken (Manchester City), Morrison (Birmingham).
Newcastle move in for Boa Morte Newcastle manager Graeme Souness has confirmed Fulham striker Luis Boa Morte is his latest transfer target. Souness wants to add the £3m-rated Portugal international to his revamped squad during the transfer window. He said: "We have declared an interest in him. The chairman is working hard to bring at least one more body in before this window goes past." Souness may offer Olivier Bernard, Titus Bramble or Lee Bowyer as bait in a deal for the 27-year-old. The Newcastle boss also unveiled Jean-Alain Boumsong, his £8m buy from Ranger, and defender Celestine Babayaro, a £1m capture from Chelsea, as he revamps his squad. Fulham have insisted Boa Morte is not for sale and hope he will agree a new contract - but Souness is determined to land his man.
Sanchez targets NI win in Warsaw Northern Ireland manager Lawrie Sanchez has targeted the 30 March game in Poland as their most important in the World Cup qualifying campaign. While fans are savouring the prospect of playing England at Old Trafford four days earlier, Sanchez knows the Polish clash holds the key to second place. "If we do not beat Poland the group will be almost dead. They will be pretty sure of second," said Sanchez. "I would like to beat England but the Poland game is most important." Sanchez's side are currently fourth in Group Six with three points while the Poles are second with nine. So, with four games left, Northern Ireland need to make up ground in Warsaw. "I do not think qualifying for this World Cup is closed yet but we have to beat Poland to keep it open," said Sanchez. "If we do not make it this time, then there is the European Championship. I want us to get closer and closer to qualifying. "I want to get Northern Ireland back in the finals of a major competition and I also aim to get into the top 100 of the Fifa rankings. We are well capable of that." Before the World Cup qualifiers, Canada visit Belfast for a 9 February friendly and Sanchez will be giving some fringe players the opportunity to catch his eye. "We have one or two injuries and suspensions at the moment," added Sanchez. "Stuart Elliott is injured and Michael Hughes and James Quinn are suspended for the England game so it gives me the chance to have a look at other players who might come into the equation. "It will be nice to get back to Belfast for a home game and it is about time we put an end to our run without a home win." Northern Ireland have not won at home under Sanchez. Indeed, their last Windsor success was back in September 2001 when they beat Iceland in the last World Cup campaign.
FAI secures &#163;7m sponsorship deal The Football Association of Ireland has signed a £7million, six-year sponsorship deal with Umbro. The deal is the second largest in sponsorship in FAI history. It will bring in £4.8m in cash and be worth more than £2m in kit supplies with other bonus payments linked to performance in major competitions. "It brings immediate and lasting benefits to the development of the next generation of people who want to play football", said FAI chief John Delaney. "This Umbro deal provides a very stable platform over a long period which will help us provide the football community with the support they need." The Football Association of Ireland is set to announce a major new sponsorship deal later this week. A statement from the football governing body it would be a "a multi-million Euro sponsorship agreement". The news is a further boost to the FAI after the recent decision of the Irish Sports Council to restore 350,000 Euro in funding to the association. John Delaney agreed to become interim chief executive of the FAI after Fran Rooney's departure in November. Under Delaney's leadership, the FAI has agreed to Irish government demands to adhere to the recommendations of the Genesis Report. The Genesis report detailed chaotic organisation within the FAI when it was published in 2003.
Highbury will be our Cup final Arsenal is a very special place for me because it is one of the few away games I remember going to when I was a boy. I can't remember what the year was but I was so young I was in short trousers. My father worked for English Steel Corporation, he was a crane driver and worked 12-hour shifts. Every year they had a trip to London and in this particular year they were going to London to watch Arsenal play. I remember him smuggling me on to the bus then into the Imperial Hotel, which I remember vividly, and then smuggling me over the turnstiles at Highbury. I remember looking across at the massive clock which has gone now and it is a memory I will never forget. It was a marvellous game, the Arsenal fans were absolutely brilliant and all the Sheffield United fans mixed with them. We lost 1-0 but our centre-half Joe Shaw was, for me, the best player in the world that day. On Saturday my son, who at three-and-a-half-years is a similar age to what I was, is going to be on the pitch before the game, while my daughter is the mascot. I think it will have the same effect on him - I don't think you forget things like that. I think the next time I went to Highbury was when I took a team there. When I was at Notts County we went there in the top flight and lost 2-0, but I took Huddersfield down there for the second leg of the League Cup and got a draw. I think they expected to get a cricket score because they beat us 5-0 in the first leg. Ian Wright was in the team and George Graham made one or two comments that made us pretty determined and had they not equalised late on we would have won that leg. They are a club I admire a lot. After we played Arsenal in the semi-final in 2003 the number of letters and messages I got from Arsenal fans regarding the behaviour of our fans and our team was quite outstanding and it just shows they are a great set of supporters. Everybody will be making an issue of that game at Old Trafford. I felt personally hard done by. You don't mind getting beat but in this particular case I think everybody saw their goal - scored by Freddie Ljungberg - was a travesty and should not have been allowed. I got fined for comments I made about referee Graham Poll, though I would not take any of those back. But that's how it has gone for us. The higher you go means you have to have Premier League referees and we have never really done very well with them. I would have liked a Football League official but Neale Barry, who is an experienced referee, has been awarded the game and you have to get on with it. That said, I think we will need more than help from the referee on Saturday after watching them demolish Crystal Palace on Monday. I turned it off after they scored three goals in about eight minutes and watched Bambi with the kids. Since I have watched the Premiership there have been a number of players who I think have been absolutely out of this world and would have paid anything to watch. One was Eric Cantona and another was Gianfranco Zola, who I thought was absolutely fantastic. Arsenal have two of those type of players. I still cannot believe some of Dennis Bergkamp's touches. His movement, footballing brain and awareness - and at nearly 36 - is incredible. I don't think any adjective is good enough to describe Thierry Henry. For me he is the Rolls Royce of Arsenal and the Premiership itself. No doubt they will be thinking of resting a few players for their Champions League game on Tuesday, but I am doing the same for our Championship game with Plymouth! That is a far more important game for us. Arsenal is like our Cup final, I feel like we have already got to the final - we have earned the money we set out to earn for the club and now we can enjoy our day out. Plymouth is the next big game for me and we have to be ready for that. Whatever team Arsenal play it is going to be a hell of a difficult task to get anything - we are just thinking about being respectable. After looking at Palace the other night I think you will probably get odds of 100-1 for us to win - and that's in a two-horse race. People ask me if we have done anything different in our preparations this week? We have...nothing! The players have been too exhausted after playing for almost an hour with 10 men on Sunday that they have not been able to do anything. They have done stretches and warm downs but very little football because of tiredness. On Thursday we will work on something but when it comes to dealing with Bergkamp and Henry I will probably say to my defenders just close your eyes and get your fingers crossed. When they are on their game there is not much you can do about them.
Beckham defends form for England England captain David Beckham insists he is not concerned by criticism of his displays for club and country. "As long as I'm happy with my form for Real Madrid and England, whatever anybody else says doesn't really matter," said Beckham. "The most important thing for me is that I'm comfortable with the way I'm playing - I must admit, the last month has been my best month for a while. "There are a lot of important games coming up, for Real and for England." The midfielder feels that new coach Wanderley Luxemburgo's arrival at Madrid has lifted the Spanish giants. "Since the turn of the year, it's been exciting because we've got a new manager in, and we're playing more attractive football than we had been over the last few months," Beckham explained. "He's totally changed things around - I think we're working a lot harder in training and we're more organised in games. "That's shown in the games we've played under him - even the six-minute game, which was a great start for him. "It's pushed the players on a little bit, and given us more confidence, which is great for any team. I'm looking forward to 2005 - we're seven points behind Barcelona but things are looking up for us. "In any season, I want to win as many trophies as possible, play the best football I can, and stay healthy and fit - that's all I can ask." Looking ahead to next week's first England game of 2005, Beckham is keen to test his form on the international stage. "It's important to be involved in games like this - it's a tough game against Holland, even though it's a friendly," he said. "It's always nice to play in England games, but it's important to have friendlies, as it's good to get prepared for the qualifiers which are coming up. "It's important for the team which starts the qualifying games to play together as much as possible, but the manager can also try younger players out." Beckham has also been gripped by the excitement of the Premiership title race this season. "There aren't many leagues like it around the world - it's so exciting and intense, and the top three or four clubs are really close," he said. "Chelsea seem to be running away with it a little bit, but Manchester United keep winning, and no-one can forget what Arsenal can do on the pitch, so it's going to be interesting. "There's plenty of talent in the Chelsea team, the Arsenal team - but the player who always catches the eye for me is Thierry Henry - he's a great player and a really good person. "John Terry and Frank Lampard have been exceptional for Chelsea, and they're a big part of why Chelsea are doing so well this year."
Beckham hints at Man Utd return England captain David Beckham said he would return to Manchester United if he ever leaves Real Madrid. Beckham left United in July 2003 after falling out with Sir Alex Ferguson and has been linked with a return to London if he decided to move back to England. "If I ever leave I would go back to United and work with Sir Alex again, definitely," he told the Daily Mirror. "Manchester United were the club that I grew up with and felt that I would always be there my whole career." However, Beckham insisted he was happy at Real, and said he still had plenty to prove in Spain. "I have been here for a year and a half and I have not played my best football in the past few months," he said. "But I am happy. I am playing with some of the best players in the world and I want to win the top prizes like the Spanish league and the Champions League." Meanwhile, Beckham said he would fight for his international place amid pressure from Manchester City's rising star Shaun Wright-Phillips. "He deserves his chance because of the way he has been playing and I am genuinely pleased to see him doing so well," he said. "People ask me if I'm worried about him. I'm not worried because I am proud of the England team and I want the best for it. "I'm the captain. It's in my interests to have the best players in the team as well. "I am not a jealous person and I am pleased for young kids coming through. We are talking about team-mates of mine. "Shaun is a threat to me because he plays in the same position, but we can also play in other positions. "I believe I will still be in the England team in 2006. I believe I will be England captain for that World Cup."
Beckham's chat reigns in Spain England captain David Beckham won a spontaneous round of applause from journalists as he made his first real attempt at speaking Spanish in public. The Real Madrid midfielder tried a curious mix of Spanish and English at a news conference. "El partido con Atletico was mucho mejor para todos," he declared. And yes, that was 'was'. Of course, in English it all translates as "The game against Atletico was much better for all of us." A smiling Beckham, wearing a large white woolly hat, was talking about his side's recent victory over their fierce city rivals. The 29-year-old blushed as he fielded questions in stilted Spanish but will have won over many people as he provided the first evidence he was beginning to use the language. However, quite how Beckham's Spanish lessons are going remains to be seen - dare we say he might have been rehearsing for this moment? Beckham said Wanderley Luxemburgo's appointment as coach had helped Real recover their confidence. And the Brazilian's arrival, he added, was one of the reasons Real had narrowed Barcelona's lead at the top of the table to seven points. The former Manchester United player went on to address questions about his poor run of form in 2004, when allegations about his private life also surfaced. "The criticism will always be there," he said. "If you have a bad game your career is finished, or you are too old even though you're only 29. "I'm enjoying my football and I've still got five or six years left. Maybe it's not the best I have played but I suppose the European Championship didn't help with missing a couple of penalties. "People said the reason I didn't play (well) was because of personal things in my life but I have just got to keep working hard." Beckham insisted he had no intention of returning to England in the immediate future and that he would be happy to extend his contract, which runs until 2007. WHAT BECKHAM SAID (A rough translation - minus various ummms and aahs from the England skipper. Fancy learning some more? Try Spanish Steps - for a few language pointers.) How do (the players) feel after cutting Barcelona's lead to seven points by beating Real Sociedad and Atletico? El partido con Atletico was mucho mejor para todos. Siete puntos es mucho mejor para los jugadores. Es dificil pero estamos mejorando. Tenemos que trabajar mucho. The game against Atletico was much better for all of us. Seven points are much better for the players. It's difficult, but we are improving. We need to work hard. Can Madrid really win the league? Es posible. Podemos ganar la liga, pero es muy dificil. Juntos podemos ganar titulos. It's possible. We can win the league but it is very difficult. Together, we can win titles. How do you feel about the appointment of Arrigo Sacchi as director of football? Sacchi...la estabilidad es muy importante. Sacchi...Stability is very important. Where do you prefer to play? Para mi, no es importante mi posici&#243;n. For me, my position isn't important.
Gerrard future not decided by Cardiff loss Steven Gerrard's own goal in Liverpool's Carling Cup defeat against Chelsea sparked yet another round of speculation about his Anfield future. There was no denying the irony of Gerrard's mishap, coming as it did in a cup final against the club that almost paid £30m for him last summer. And that irony was not missed by the media - or indeed Chelsea's supporters. But to suggest the incident, and the defeat, will shape whether he stays or goes from Liverpool, is wrong. It was just one of those things that could have happened anywhere at any time, in any place and in any game. It wasn't even a mistake, although you could say the mistake was in three Liverpool defenders going for the same ball. But to pull together a sub-plot or conspiracy theory that the own goal, combined with Liverpool's defeat, has finally put Gerrard on the road to Stamford Bridge is nonsense. It was inevitable that because it came against Chelsea, there would be speculation, but I believe Gerrard will be concentrating on one thing and one thing alone. And that is ensuring Liverpool qualify for the Champions League by getting that fourth place in the Premiership. I don't think any decision has been made, and will certainly not be influenced by anything that happened in Cardiff on Sunday. Liverpool must hope they clinch fourth place and that is enough to persuade their massively influential captain to stay. From Liverpool's point of view, the defeat was a bitter disappointment, but when the disappointment has subsided, they can take heart from a week of encouragement both at home and abroad. Liverpool had an excellent win against Bayer Leverkusen in the Champions League, when they got it down, played and scored goals. And in Sunday's Carling Cup final, they showed real defensive resilience when they were pinned back for long periods. I think Rafael Benitez is on the right lines and speaks with a lot of confidence about his team and what he wants from them. But there is no doubt Liverpool's next two games will shape their season, at Newcastle away in the league and then Bayer away in the Champions League second leg. What they cannot afford to do is produce any performances like they produced at Burnley, Southampton or Birmingham. If they slip up at Newcastle then Everton beat Blackburn 24 hours later, that will be an 11-point gap and that's an awful long way back for them in the race for the Champions League place. There is added spice because Everton are fourth. They had an impressive win at Aston Villa, and you cannot take away from them what they have done. They've had an uncertain spell recently, but they've picked up points here and there and that is a great tribute to manager David Moyes and his players. And in Tim Cahill, they've paid £2m for a player from outside the Premiership who has proved himself in the top-flight. Liverpool will still be a massive magnet for top players, but they may also need to seek out the type of signings that Moyes has pulled off with Cahill. He has been excellent since arriving from Millwall and has been a very sound purchase by Moyes. While the battle for fourth hots up, Manchester United turned the screw a little tighter on leaders Chelsea by beating Portsmouth and reducing the gap to six points - albeit with a game in hand for Jose Mourinho's side. The Carling Cup win against Liverpool was massive for Chelsea, because it stopped all the inevitable questions that would have been posed if they had lost three games in a week. I don't think they answered all the questions, because for all their long periods of possession they were struggling to score until Gerrard's unfortunate intervention. Obviously a lot of focus has been centred on Mourinho for events on and off the pitch, but I think he will be more than happy with that because it means the heat is taken off his players. If people are asking questions about the manager, they are leaving the players in peace, so Mourinho will settle for that. And while United are showing once again there is no-one better when it comes to the chase, I don't think there is any shift in the balance of power in the Premiership. It is all Chelsea's to lose, with a six-point lead and a game in hand. Throw in that their next four league games are against the bottom four sides in the table, and you can see they are in a strong position. They must keep their eye on the ball because Manchester United are masters of this situation - but the balance of power still lies with Chelsea.
Barwick installed as new FA boss New Football Association chief executive Brian Barwick has been handed the task of restoring the organisation's credibility. The FA has suffered with financial problems and the Faria Alam scandal. Sports minister Richard Caborn said: "Brian's main task will be to restore the respect and authority. "The FA has taken some knocks and it will be up to him to pick the organisation up again so it is respected by all parts of the game." One of Barwick's first jobs could be to try to get to the bottom of a claim that Chelsea held an illegal meeting with Arsenal's England defender Ashley Cole on 27 January. However, it could be that the FA decide to leave that matter to the Premier League, in which case Barwick would certainly have enough to get to grips with. Former chief executive Mark Palios and his communications director Colin Gibson left the FA in August 2004 after revelations both Palios and England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson had affairs with secretary Alam. Even the announcement of Barwick's appointment in November was not straightforward, with a vocal minority of the FA board left furious that the position was not left empty until an independent review had been completed. Caborn added: "The most important issue coming up is the independent review by Lord Burns, and Brian will need to act on the recommendations to ensure that a good system of governance is brought into the FA. "We have 40,000 football clubs in this country, it is our national game, and it is important that the FA has the authority and leadership to deal with the game from the England team at the very top right down to the grass-roots." Gordon Taylor, chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association, called for Barwick to include all levels of the game more in the running of the FA. He said: "It is important that the FA should be a lot more inclusive in their policy-making process. "The executive board is made up of the Premier League, Football League and grass-roots game but there is no structure that gives proper places for supporters, players, managers or referees' representatives. "In the past promises have been made by various to include all parts of the game but that wasn't the case and things blew up in their faces."
Barwick calls for Highbury calm New Football Association chief Brian Barwick pleaded with Arsenal and Manchester United to show calm ahead of their Highbury showdown. "When these two great teams meet it should represent all that is good about our domestic game," said Barwick, who started at the FA on Monday. "It shouldn't be the subject of recrimination and revenge for weeks and months following. "That doesn't set the right example for the rest of the game." Barwick also underlined his determination to clamp down on diving - or "cheating" as he unequivocally called it - in his bid to clean up the game. He said: " "There are always issues in the game and there always will be. "One that concerns me personally is technically termed 'simulation', but let's get real - this is diving. Cheating, in fact. "We've all got to show more honesty here. Every week, referees are coming under intense scrutiny when making split-second judgement calls in this area. "It's impossible to get them all right and everyone has got to take a greater level of responsibility." Barwick is determined to get more respect for referees at all levels of the game. He said: "I've always been impressed at the way in which the player-referee relationship in rugby union is based on mutual respect. "I want to see this type of relationship at every level of football, from the Premier League to the Sunday League."
Linesman defends disallowed goal Linesman Rob Lewis has defended his role in Tottenham's disallowed goal against Manchester United. Pedro Mendes' shot clearly crossed the line and Lewis has been criticised for his positioning in the incident. Lewis said: "The Spurs player shot from distance and I was doing my primary job which was to stand in line with the last defender and watch for an offside. "There was nothing I could have done differently apart from run faster than Linford Christie." He added: "When the ball landed I was still 25 yards from goal and it was impossible to judge if it had crossed the line." Tottenham boss Martin Jol criticised the decision, which cost his side three points. "The referee is already wearing an earpiece so why can't we just stop the game and get the decision right," said Jol after the 0-0 draw. "But at the end of the day it's so obvious that Pedro's shot was over the line it's incredible. "We feel robbed but it's difficult for the linesman and referee to see it." Mendes shot from 50 yards and United goalkeeper Roy Carroll spilled the ball into his own net before hooking it clear. Jol added: "We are not talking about the ball being a couple of centimetres or an inch or two over the line, it was a metre inside the goal. "What really annoys me is that we are here in 2005, watching something on a TV monitor within two seconds of the incident occurring and the referee isn't told about it. "We didn't play particularly well but I am pleased - even now - with a point, although we should have had three." Mendes could not believe the 'goal' was not given after seeing a replay. He said: "My reaction on the pitch was to celebrate. "It was a very nice goal, it was clearly over the line - I've never seen one so over the line and not given in my career. "It's really, really over. What can you do but laugh about it? It's a nice goal and one to keep in my memory even though it didn't count. "It's not every game you score from the halfway line." Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson sympathised with Tottenham and said the incident highlighted the need for video technology. "I think it hammers home what a lot of people have been asking for and that's that technology should play a part in the game," Ferguson told MUTV. "What I was against originally was the time factor in video replays. "But I read an article the other day which suggested that if a referee can't make up his mind after 30 seconds of watching a video replay then the game should carry on. "Thirty seconds is about the same amount of time it takes to organise a free-kick or take a corner or a goal-kick. So you wouldn't be wasting a lot of time. "I think you could start off by using it for goal-line decisions. I think that would be an opening into a new area of football." Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger also used the incident to highlight the need for video technology. "When the whole world apart from the referee has seen there should be a goal at Old Trafford, that just reinforces what I feel - there should be video evidence," said Wenger. "It's a great example of where the referee could have asked to see a replay and would have seen in five seconds that it was a goal."
Bookies pay out on Spurs 'goal' A bookmaker will pay out to punters who bet on Pedro Mendes to score the first goal in Tottenham's controversial game against Manchester United. The match at Old Trafford finished goalless after Mendes' long-range shot was fumbled by home keeper Roy Carroll. TV replays showed the ball went over the line, but the incident was missed by the referee and his assistant. William Hill is to honour bets on 20-1 chance Mendes to score first, although rival firm Ladbrokes will not. Hills spokesman Graham Sharpe admitted only a handful of customers had backed Mendes to score first. Bets struck at 11-2 on Mendes to score at anytime during the match will also be settled. "We have decided to pay out to - the admittedly few - customers who would have definitely been on a winner had the goal been given as it quite obviously should have been," said Sharpe. Meanwhile, Paddy Power bookmakers will refund all losing bets on Spurs to win the match. The Irish firm is now offering odds of just 7-2 that a video referee is used in the 2005 FA Cup final. But not everyone will be celebrating, with Britain's biggest bookmaker Ladbrokes refusing to bend the rules. "As much as we sympathise with punters who backed Spurs, the referee's decision is final," said spokesman Balthazar Fabricius. "Besides which, if we were to pay out on bad refereeing decisions, we'd be paying out every week. We want better refereeing as much as punters do." And the William Hill concession does not apply to correct score or outright bet results. "No-one can say for sure what the final score would have been had the Mendes goal been allowed - after all, in the past United have scored twice in the final minute of a match," said Sharpe.
Gunners clock up winning record Arsenal claimed the Premiership title and re-wrote the record books in the process by going the entire 38-game season unbeaten. It was the first time a team had gone through a top-flight season undefeated since Preston in the 1888-89 season. Arsenal romped home by a convincing 11-point margin from Chelsea. The closest they came to defeat was in the so-called "Battle of Old Trafford" when Ruud van Nistelrooy missed a last-minute penalty in a goalless draw. It was a game that cast a shadow over the season, with Van Nistelrooy surrounded by angry Arsenal players. Arsenal's Lauren was banned for four games, Martin Keown three matches and Ray Parlour one after the incident. Manchester United pair Ryan Giggs and Cristiano Ronaldo were also fined for their part in the fracas. Arsenal's title triumph made up for more disappointment on the European stage, where they lost to Chelsea in the Champions League quarter-finals. Arsene Wenger's side looked on course to finally end their Champions League drought, particularly after winning 5-1 away to Inter Milan. But in a twist on their domestic domination, Chelsea won 2-1 at Highbury to clinch a 3-2 aggregate victory. Manchester United fared even worse, going out to Porto when Francisco Costina scored a last-minute Old Trafford equaliser. United finished third in the league, but had an FA Cup win for consolation. Porto's success introduced manager Jose Mourinho to a wider audience, and particularly Chelsea. Chelsea manager Claudio Ranieri lived under a cloud of speculation all season, particulary claims he would be replaced by Sven-Goran Eriksson. It intensified when Eriksson was caught holding talks with Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon. An embarrassed England coach was then awarded a new four-year contract by the Football Association. Ranieri sealed his fate with a series of bizarre substitutions as Chelsea lost 3-1 in the first leg of the Champions League semi-final in Monaco. And when he inevitably lost his job, it was Mourinho, who went on to win the Champions League with Porto, who stepped in to take over. Mourinho's reign began well, with Chelsea topping the Premiership at Christmas and joining Arsenal, Manchester United and Liverpool in the next phase of the Champions League. Another manager to lose his job was Liverpool's Gerard Houllier, whose reign ended after six years. Houllier paid the price for finishing fourth and without a trophy last term. He was replaced by Valencia's Rafael Benitez, whose impressive credentials included winning Spain's La Liga and the Uefa Cup last season. Valencia beat Marseille 2-0 to cement Benitez's growing reputation. Manchester United enjoyed their moment of glory by beating Millwall 3-0 in the FA Cup final in Cardiff. Ruud van Nistelrooy struck twice and Cristiano Ronaldo was also on target at Dennis Wise's side were outclassed by their Premiership opponents. Wolves lost their Premiership status, along with Leicester City and Leeds United, who completed a stunning decline from grace. Leeds had reached the Champions League semi-final three years before they went down after defeat at Bolton. The three were replaced by Norwich, West Brom and Crystal Palace, who beat West Ham in the play-off in Cardiff. The summer saw big-spending in the transfer market, with Wayne Rooney the central figure in the drama. Teenager Rooney returned to Everton after Euro 2004 with superstar status assured after stunning performances. And when he refused to sign a new five-year contract, Newcastle United opened the bidding at £20m. A transfer request followed and Manchester United completed a £27m deal just hours before the transfer window closed at the end of August. Rooney confirmed his worth with a hat-trick on his debut in the Champions League against Fenerbahce. Chelsea, inevitably, were among the big-spenders again, splashing out £24m on Marseille's Didier Drogba and £20m on Porto defender Ricardo Carvalho. Last and by no means least, the other major piece of domestic silverware went to Middlesbrough, who ended 128 barren years by winning the Carling Cup. They beat Bolton 2-1 in the final with goals from Joseph-Desire Job and a penalty from Boudewijn Zenden. The pressures of the top-flight were cruelly illustrated at Southampton. Paul Sturrock was sacked only two games into the new season, one of which was a win against Blackburn, and only 13 games in total at St Mary's. Another manager to pay the price early-season was West Brom's Gary Megson, who was sacked after revealing he would not renew his contract. He guided West Brom back into the Premiership, but his relationship with chairman Jeremy Peace was fragile. Bryan Robson succeeded him as he returned to his old club. In Scotland, Henrik Larsson bid an emotional and successful farewell to Celtic after seven glorious seasons. Celtic won the league and also the Scottish Cup, beating Dunfermline 3-1 in the final, with the Swede scoring twice to take his season's tally to 41. And it took his overall Celtic goals record to 242 goals in 315 appearances before joining Barcelona. Underdogs Livingston claimed the CIS Insurance Cup with a 2-0 win against Hibs, a victory for the romantics.
Fifa agrees goal-line technology Fifa is expected to use a football containing a microchip as part of new goal-line technology in September's Under-17 World championships in Peru. The game's governing body has agreed to the experiment in a bid to end controversies over goal-line decisions. It follows a presentation by sports manufacturer Adidas to the International FA board in Cardiff. The company tested the device in a game between Nuremberg and their reserve team ahead of the board's meeting. A football has a microchip inside, so when it crosses the goal-line the referee is alerted directly by a bleeper-type system rather than any video replays being used. The fact that there is no delay to the game has impressed the Ifab, which is made up of four Fifa representatives plus a member of each of the four home associations. The English Football Association had offered to experiment with the ball as well but both the Premier League and Football League use balls made by rival manufacturers. Adidas is developing the new ball with the German-based Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft research centre, but believes that such rigorous experimentation is needed that it is unlikely to be ready for next year's World Cup final in Germany. Calls for new technology resurfaced after Spurs were denied a clear goal at Manchester United when goalkeeper Roy Carroll dropped the ball behind the line, but the incident was missed by the officials.
Owen may have to return home Michael Owen has delivered the first hint that he may consider his future away from Real Madrid if he fails to get regular first-team football - and no-one can blame him. Owen displayed his world-class ability once again with another goal after coming on as a substitute in Real's win at Osasuna on Sunday. And therein lies his problem. Michael may have made a rod for his own back with his fantastic performances coming on as substitute. His many coaches at Real Madrid may have decided this is his best role. If that is the case, that is no good to him and he will be coming home sooner rather than later. Michael must hope his performances earn him a regular starting opportunity - and you can rest assured he will take that chance when it comes. I said when he was on the bench earlier this season that Michael's pride would ensure he stuck it out. He would not want to be branded a failure. But he is still on the bench and we are into February - and he could leave now and no-one could call him a flop after the terrific performances he has turned in. If and when he decides to leave, I don't think he will go elsewhere in Europe. I think he will come back to the Premiership. And there would be no shortage of takers. In an ideal world I would obviously love to see him return to Liverpool but you can rest assured that Arsenal and Chelsea would consider what Michael Owen could offer them as well. Owen is a great goalscorer but he is also a very good footballer as well. But one thing that is vital to Michael's game is sharpness - and he will know himself that you miss a vital ingredient when you are not starting games. Also Michael is a fine professional who did not sign for Real Madrid to sit on the sidelines - no matter how many Galacticos are around him. I would expect some serious interest should he fail to win a regular place. - Chelsea have given the lie to claims that they are enjoying good fortune in their quest for the title - but they will do well just to have a look in their rear-view mirror at Manchester United. Sir Alex Ferguson played the mind games by suggesting Chelsea would struggle in the north - but they've answered that one. They beat Blackburn, who didn't half put a foot in against them, and then came through a real tough one at Everton, albeit aided by James Beattie's sending off. Chelsea have done brilliantly and you do not keep clean sheets like they do by luck alone. But all Manchester United can do is keep up the pressure - and boy are they doing that. No team has ever been better at chasing down the leaders than Manchester United. Ferguson's team will stay totally committed to the cause. It is still very much Chelsea's to lose and they have shown they can battle as well as play exhilarating football, so the odds must be on them. But the old Liverpool saying was that you have never won the title until the medal is in your hand - and United will still have their sights set on snatching them away from Chelsea. The big talking point of the weekend was Beattie's sending off for Everton against Chelsea. I've got to confess, I've never seen anything like that. I can't defend the lad or condone it but you can almost see how it has happened. He has come out fired up but it's all gone wrong. It was right in front of the referee and it's the most straightforward red you'll ever see. It gave Chelsea a crucial advantage - and it was one they took advantage of in a very professional manner.
Moyes U-turn on Beattie dismissal Everton manager David Moyes will discipline striker James Beattie after all for his headbutt on Chelsea defender William Gallas. The Scot initially defended Beattie, whose dismissal put Everton on the back foot in a game they ultimately lost 1-0, saying Gallas overreacted. But he has had a rethink after looking over the video evidence again. He said: "I believe that I should set the record straight by conceding that the dismissal was right and correct." Moyes added: "My comments on Saturday came immediately after the final whistle and at a point when I had only had the opportunity to see one, very quick re-run of the incident." The club website also reported that Beattie, who seemed unrepentant after Saturday's match, insisting Gallas "would have stayed down a lot longer" if he had headbutted him, has now apologised. Moyes continued: "Although the incident was totally out of character - James has never even been suspended before in his career - his actions were unacceptable and had a detrimental effect on his team-mates. "James did issue a formal apology to myself, his team-mates and to the Everton supporters immediately after the game and that was the right thing to have done. He will now be subjected to the normal club discipline. "He is a competitive player but a fair player and I know how upset he is by what has happened. However, I must say that I do still believe the Chelsea player in question did go down too easily." Speaking immediately after the game, Moyes said: "I don't think it was a sending-off, I have been a centre-half in my time and I would have been ashamed to have gone down as easily as that. "Not in a million years would John Terry have gone down in the same way. I have never heard of anybody butting somebody from behind while you are running after them. "What has happened to big, strong centre-halves? I thought it was a push initially and I still don't think it was a sending-off." An angry Beattie initially said: "He (Gallas) would have stayed down a lot longer if I had headbutted him. "I can tell you it wasn't an intentional headbutt. We were chasing a ball into the corner and William Gallas was looking over his shoulder and blocking me off. "He was stopping as we were running and I said to myself 'if you're going to stay in my way I'll go straight over you'. Our heads barely touched and it wasn't an intentional headbutt."
Owen dismisses fresh Real rumours England striker Michael Owen helped inspire Real Madrid to a 2-1 win at Osasuna in La Liga on Sunday before insisting he is happy at the club. The ex-Liverpool player started on the bench, an on-going situation that has led to rumours of a Premiership return. Owen has admitted he is frustrated at his lack of first-team chances but is determined to succeed in Spain. "I'm always going to say I want to play more minutes but that doesn't mean I'm unhappy being a substitute," he said. "It wasn't a great goal, but neither was the game, grounds like this are always difficult," Owen added. "I'm happy with my goal because it was a vital goal for the win and even more so after what Barcelona did (beating Real Zaragoza 4-1 on Saturday). "This could be a decisive result at the end of the season. "Even when we were losing, I was confident we could win and now we all have very positive feelings." Roberto Carlos' free-kick was parried and when Raul's shot was kept out Owen was in the right place to head home. Ivan Helguera scored the winner for Real, who have won seven games in a row under new coach Vanderlei Luxemburgo. The victory kept them within four points of leaders Barcelona. Owen had earlier hinted in the News of the World newspaper that he may leave Real Madrid to safeguard his international career. He has failed to command a regular place in the Real team and said he is concerned that his increasing amount of time on the bench may affect his England place. "Sometimes I feel I am happy then the next week I might be on the bench and I am a bit low in myself again," he told The News of The World. "It is frustrating and isn't the best way to prepare for the next World Cup." Owen has had to prove himself to three managers in his short time at Real. Jose Antonio Camacho was replaced by Mariano Garcia Remon, who has now made way for Luxemburgo. "The first manager came along and I never started that much. But the more he was here the more I played," the striker said. "Then the second manager came and he went back to the normal 11 that everyone associated with. "But I had eight or nine games on the spin and scored seven goals on the bounce. I was doing all right and then he left and now I am back to where I was again. "It has not been ideal but it looks as if this manager is here to stay so I will keep plugging away." Owen has discussed his concerns with England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson and admitted: "This last month hasn't been perfect. I am not missing out on goalscoring but I am missing out on minutes on the pitch." Luxemburgo told the Sunday Times that he sympathised with Owen. "He is bound to get angry and feel sad but I can say Owen will play more," he commented. "Raul and Ronaldo are not always going to start every game. "I like Owen a lot in training, he is always willing, ready to listen to things. He is a bit introverted but he has got character." Meanwhile, Luxemburgo has booked himself a place in the Real history books after the victory over Osasuna. He is the first coach to have won his first seven league games in charge of the club.
A need to limit foreign numbers With all the top clubs vying for the title and the Champions League, at least the FA Cup gave an opportunity for one or two of the younger lads at the major clubs to get a game in the first team. I don't personally like to see weakened sides in the competition, but it seems in some cases it's the only chance for the young lads to get some first-team experience. Over the years the influx of foreign players has affected the young Englishman more than anyone. I know you have to have freedom of movement but I do believe a time will come when countries will have to put a limit on the number of overseas players - including Europeans. I think the trend has become more noticeable since the influx of foreign bosses like Arsene Wenger, Claudio Ranieri and now Jose Mourinho. They seem to know the foreign market more than the English, although Chelsea appear to be signing one or two young Englishmen. When the foreigners first started coming into the country, I thought people like Dennis Bergkamp and Gianfranco Zola were absolutely magnificent. Zola is still the best player I have ever seen in my time as a manager. I don't think anybody would ever begrudge players like that because you would pay money to watch these individuals. But I think the problem now is that clubs, even at the lower level, find English players expensive. Agents are offering players left, right and centre who are not only cheap but can also come over on trial, which was unheard of in the past. Bolton are a good example. I never thought they could be successful, but Sam Allardyce has waved his magic wand and brought these players over. The technology that Sam uses has definitely paid off. He has all these databases on every foreign player. He is a unique person - I never thought you could have 10 different nations in a dressing room and still have a good team spirit! But Sam has proved that wrong over the last few years and will continue to do it. What Bolton have said is they can't pay large transfer fees but they can get these players in for 6-12 months and compete at a high level that way. My view about foreign players changed about three years ago when I had quite a large number of them at Bramall Lane. The match we played with West Brom which was abandoned after we went down to six players changed my views on having a large amount of foreign players. I decided then to go with the kids and if I could sign English lads I would. I got two sent off in that game and one or two other things happened with players. I also found that with a couple of players that didn't talk English it is very difficult coaching-wise to get them to grasp the fundamentals. If possible I will look for players I sign to speak English, although we are in the process of signing Hao Haidong from China. He has very limited English but is a very experienced player who I don't think you have to tell too many times what you want him to do. There was a time when Scottish football was a good source for players but if you speak to people that look at players up there now it is clear the standard has dropped over the years. You only have to look at the Scotland squad - the talent is not there any longer because they don't invest in their youth development. It is common knowledge we enquired about Liverpool's Neil Mellor, who could now find himself pushed down the pecking order by the arrival of Fernando Morientes from Real Madrid. I think people like Neil are better off getting some games under their belt, but it's difficult because Liverpool are such a great club and he has had opportunities there. He has scored goals there so they rate him highly and it must be difficult for young players to turn their back on that and drop down to the Championship level.
No lack of Christmas spirit It's that time of year when footballers and managers brace themselves for what I think is the most important period of the entire season. I was thinking to myself last week that the last time I had a Christmas off was 39 years ago. I have never been out of work at Christmas as a player or manager since I was 17 when our youth team coach at Chesterfield, a chap called Reg Wright, gave us Christmans off. But only because there were no games. I think things have changed dramatically over the years in terms of discipline and looking after themselves. Players take a lot more responsibility these days, in particular the older ones - I'm talking about those 32 and over, here. They've changed their whole outlook in order to continue playing at this level. Managers as well need to trust players more than we have in the past. In my squad I haven't got anyone I have to warn regarding excess and over-eating, which is a massive bonus. Over the years, there have been some players in the squad who you would never know if they were going to turn up for training smelling of booze. As per usual, we will be training on Christmas Day, prior to our Boxing Day trip to Coventry. But there are times when you can do too much over Christmas, having the players in for training and then leaving for the game. I'll try and strike a balance and after we've trained in the morning, the players can go home for a few hours and we'll leave for Coventry about 7pm. I allow the players to have a pre-Christmas night out. They came to me in November and asked if they could have a night out in Leeds and I said 'no'. I also said 'no' to Manchester, Sheffield and Nottingham and eventually let them go to Dublin after we played at Millwall. I send a minder with them to look after them, not because I don't trust them. The problem is that nowadays, footballers are big news and you never know when somebody is going to step out with a mobile phone and take pictures of them. You have to trust your players to behave themselves, but unfortunately you can't govern for other people's behaviour. There is always an idiot out there who wants to get himself a bit notoriety or his name in the local paper by picking a fight and taking a pop at a professional footballer. I also know that last year one newspaper asked certain young ladies to find out when and where players were holding their Christmas parties in the hope of getting embarrassing photos. I tried to behave myself as a player and I remember when I was at Scunthorpe, going to bed at 10pm on New Year's Eve as we had a game on New Year's Day. I missed all the festivities and seeing the new year in, only to wake up the next morning to find there was two feet of snow on the ground! We all love Christmas, though and I like to take my children William and Amy to see the lights and take them to Santa's grotto. But when you're in football you accept that Christmas is not the same for you as for others. In fact, until somebody mentioned it to me the other day, I never realised that it's become the norm for me and others in football not to have a Christmas holiday. One of the nice things when I do retire will be not having to worry about the phone ringing over Christmas. You're always on tenterhooks on Christmas Day that somebody is injured or has had an accident playing with their kids. But I would like to take this opportunity to wish everybody a Happy Christmas and a prosperous new year.
FA ready to test out goal bleeper The Football Association may volunteer to test a new goal-line bleeper when the game's bosses meet this weekend. The technology will be presented at the annual meeting of the International FA Board (IFAB), made up of Fifa and the four home nation associations. The bleeper-type system alerts the referee when the ball, containing a micro-chip, crosses the goal-line. There have been calls for the technology after Tottenham had a goal controversially disallowed last month. Spurs were denied a winner against Manchester United, despite Pedro Mendes' effort crossing the line. Mendes' speculative strike from the halfway line comfortably crossed the goal-line after an error from United keeper Roy Carroll. But with the referee and assistant referee unable to get a proper view of the incident, the 'goal' was not given. This latest breakthrough in electronic aids could help referees avoid situations like this in future. If it impresses the IFAB, then the Football League are likely to experiment with the new technology. FA executive director David Davies said: "We will be very interested to see this presentation - it's true we have been more interested in the use of technology than other members of the board. "But this is not video technology, the referee will have a direct link with this form of technology rather than having to rely on a fourth official or video back-up. "Whether this form of technology will find wider support than previous efforts remains to be seen but if there was enthusiasm I'm sure we would seriously discuss with our leagues whether they would be interested in this sort of innovation." The Football League have already made one offer to Fifa to test out goal-line technology and spokesman John Nagle confirmed: "That offer is still on the table." The presentation to the IFAB by adidas will need to persuade Fifa president Sepp Blatter, especially as he has always resisted bringing technology into the game.
The gloves are off When Arsenal play Manchester United on Tuesday, a fixture that is usually a title-decider has this time been relegated to undercard status. Both teams will be playing for pride and hoping for a win to seize on any possible hiccup by Premiership leaders Chelsea. Arsenal and United have been left in the slipstream of the Stamford Bridge outfit and the reason, according to many experts, is goalkeeping woes. While Chelsea keeper Petr Cech, who the Gunners missed out on signing, has conceded only eight league goals so far this season, his rivals have had their quality questioned after high-profile mistakes and misdemeanours. Arsenal have let in 24 goals as Jens Lehmann has been dropped in favour of Manuel Almunia, who has failed to convince the doubters, despite holding Highbury's number one jersey. Roy Carroll has wrestled the first-team keeper spot at United from Tim Howard, whose errors cost him his place, but he still has doubts hanging over his credentials. "It's like a heartbreak for goalkeepers like me and Peter Shilton," ex-Gunners keeper Bob Wilson told BBC Radio Five Live's Sportsweek programme in assessment of the general level of goalkeeping at present. Shilton is England's most-capped player and he believes the lack of top-class keepers is a reason for the predicament at Arsenal and United. "They are adequate," he said. "You look around and there are not too many other goalkeepers who you would think were better." Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and his Old Trafford counterpart Sir Alex Ferguson have tried in vain to find new players of a similar quality to replace David Seaman and Peter Schmeichel. Seaman was at Arsenal for 13 years, while Schmeichel was at Old Trafford for eight years and was hailed as the "bargain of the century" by Ferguson after he signed him for £600,000. Wilson and Shilton have cited the lack of technique of the current generation but both agree they would have Lehmann in goal ahead of Almunia at Arsenal. Wilson explained: "I would defend Jens Lehman last season because he was top of every stat going. "He had an absolutely phenomenal season but, unfortunately, a couple of big errors came in the Champions League against Chelsea and Arsene is a hard taskmaster and so he suddenly started to change and take a real chance on the Spaniard. "Lehmann has excellent basic technique and young Almunia is still learning the game. "I believe at the moment Lehmann has an advantage over Almunia but the man who is paid to make those decisions, and that's Arsene, will continue to play Almunia." Shilton echoed: "Lehmann did well. Arsenal were unbeaten for so many games and he was very consistent but the minute he made one or two mistakes and people got on to his back he seemed to lose a bit of confidence. "Arsenal and United could have better goalkeepers but those they have got are not doing too badly. "They are making the odd one or two serious errors and the spotlight is going to be on them but they have to put it to the back of their minds and roll their sleeves up." Former Arsenal manager George Graham brought Seaman to Highbury and he has his own theory. He said: "I would disagree with Bob and Peter about technique. I think decision-making from the majority of goalkeepers I've seen this season is the problem."
Underdogs have more fun I've always had a soft spot for the FA Cup, it's a fabulous competition - the best in the world - and there's nothing quite like it. We play Aston Villa in the third round on Saturday, and on paper it should be a straightforward win for them - but it's horrible being in the favourites' dressing room. It's a terrible feeling as a manager when you are expected to win. You're wondering whether your players will be up for it and doubts go through your mind. You try to instil in your players that they have to be professional and prepared for the battle ahead. They have to be ready for the crowd, a bad pitch sometimes, and what the underdogs will throw at them. But even if you do that, you still wonder if they will grasp it. The underdogs, on the other hand, have nothing to lose and can go out and enjoy it. Lower division players are not used to the publicity that surrounds the Cup and it's great for a manager because it's something different to talk about. You're not talking about struggles in the league, no-one is thinking about whether your form is good or bad, and the town is buzzing. As a boy, I remember being in short trousers and rushing down the road because people were coming up to the top of the hill and saying Norwich City were in town to face the Blades. Their fans were in big double-decker buses and waving down to us while we were sat there like the Railway Children. I also remember crying my eyes out when Burnley beat us. Every supporter really believes their club could get to the later stages. As a player, Scunthorpe did well at Newcastle once. Everyone said we were going to get slaughtered because they had Malcolm Macdonald. We took the lead and looked like we were going to hang on for a 1-0 win but Terry McDermott equalised in the last few minutes. There was an electricity strike and we had to play the replay in the afternoon - we lost 3-0. I still feel aggrieved at the manner of the defeat to Arsenal in the semi-finals a couple of seasons ago. The referee's decision went against us. It should be a cracking game against Villa. We're playing a super club, there should be a big crowd and it's live on BBC One, so we'll have national coverage. I'll just say to the lads "enjoy yourselves" because you play better when there is no pressure. I just hope the lads are ready and won't be overawed - we're not used to big crowds. As for potential winners, you can't look beyond the top three or four clubs, and I can't see too many upsets. There's always an opportunity but it's more likely to happen in the first game when there is an element of surprise. Since I've come to the twilight of my career, I always try to do as well as I can. Over the last couple of years we've got to the semis and quarters - at 200/1 we're a good price each way!
Bitter Santini hits out at Spurs Former Tottenham coach Jacques Santini said he quit partly because he felt agreements with the club were broken. Santini, 52, left in November after just 13 games in charge amid tensions with sporting director Frank Arnesen. "They promised me a big apartment on the beach and I found myself 200m from the sea with a view of my neighbours," he told France's Journal di Dimanche. But the ex-France coach admitted he "dug his own grave" by agreeing to join the club before the end of Euro 2004. "My only regret is having signed too early (for Tottenham). I should have waited until after Euro 2004 even if that means I might have missed my chance," he said. Santini also said he was not given enough information about Spurs' transfer policy. "I learned on the day of our team photo that our captain (Stephen Carr) was leaving the club," he said.
Uefa threat over foreign quotas Uefa has warned clubs planning to ignore its proposal for quotas of homegrown players in squads. From 2006-07 teams must submit a 25-man 'A' squad with at least two players from the club academy and two others from the same national association. Clubs may be punished with reduced squads if they refuse to comply, although Uefa has ruled out legal action against offending clubs. Arsenal had 16 overseas players for Monday's game with Crystal Palace. After the plan is introduced for the 2006-07 season the figures will rise by one for each of the next two seasons. So by 2008-09 the squad will have to contain four academy players and four others from the team's country. "The sanction is fairly simple - if you don't have the four and four for 2008-09, your squad will be cut by the number of players that do not meet the criteria," said Uefa spokesman William Gaillard. At present the ruling is only going to apply to Uefa competitions, but in April a Uefa Congress in Estonia will vote on whether to implement the measures in domestic competitions as well. But the Premier League say it is "extremely unlikely" it would be implemented in England. Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood has made shrugged off criticism of Wenger's team selection, and told the Evening Standard he was happy with how things were at the club. "For me, the nationality of any player who plays for the club is not an issue," he said. "If you have good enough players then it does not matter from which country they come. "These days, the world is smaller. We have young players from all over the world in our youth set-up. "The world of football is changing, and there are some people who don't like things to change.
Stars shine for tsunami benefit Ronaldinho's World XI beat Andriy Shevchenko's European XI 6-3 in the Nou Camp as the world's top players raised money for the tsunami relief fund. Samuel Eto'o and Ronaldinho put the World XI two-up, Alessandro del Piero pulled one back before Eto'o cheekily rounded Iker Casillas for the third. Gianfranco Zola rolled back the years to lob home and David Suazo levelled before Henri Camara scored twice. Cha Du-Ri made it 6-3 in front of a hugely entertained 40,000 crowd. Several changes were made at the break and throughout the second half as coaches Marcello Lippi, Arsene Wenger, Frank Rijkaard and Carlos Alberto Perreira tried to protect the players from injury. The players stood for a minute's silence for the victims of the Asian tsunami before the game, which was refereed by Pierluigi Collina. Perhaps the only sour note of the night was that some of the crowd chose to boo instead of show their respect, but the players made sure they did not put a dampener on proceedings. David Beckham and Steven Gerrard started for the European side, but it was the World XI's Barcelona players who stamped their early mark as Deco slipped in Eto'o to score. Ronaldinho was delighting his home crowd with some sublime tricks and flicks and he made it 2-0 by slotting home from eight yards. The European XI were more subdued despite the presence of Zinedine Zidane and Raul, though Del Piero did halve the deficit with a lovely finish. Eto'o had been named African Footballer of the Year hours before and he celebrated by bagging a brace, his second seeing him feint past Casillas and walk the ball into an empty net. As expected plenty of changes were made at the break and those changes continued throughout the second half, as the goals continued to fly in. Svevchenko's side wasted no time getting back on terms, first Zola showing his true class to lob home before Honduran Suazo side-footed home for 3-3. But Southampton striker Henri Camara had other ideas and he scored twice within five minutes, both neat finishes past Francesco Toldo in the European goal. Cha Du-Ri finished off the scoring, leaving Toldo no chance with a fierce finish from just inside the box. All proceeds from the match will be donated to the Fifa/Asian Football Confederation Tsunami Solidarity Fund. Dida, Cafu, Cordoba, Marquez, Radebe, Song, Nakata, Deco, Kaka, Ronaldinho, Eto'o. Casillas, Montero, Kaladze, Thuram, Gerrard, Diesler, Beckham, Zidane, Del Piero, Raul, Shevchenko. Pierluigi Collina (Italy).
More Africans for tsunami game Three more African stars have agreed to play in Fifa's Football for Hope match, organised to raise money for the victims of the Asian tsunami. Nigerian youngster Obafemi Martins and the Cameroon pair of Raymond Kalla and Rigobert Song have added their names to the six Africans who had already confirmed their participation in Tuesday's game in Barcelona. The Ivory Coast's Didier Drogba and Cameroon's Samuel Eto'o Fils will both be playing in the game rather than attending the Caf's Footballer of the Year award ceremony in South Africa. Both players are on the short list for Caf's 2004 Footballer of the Year award along with Nigeria's Jay-Jay Okocha. As well as Drogba and Eto'o, who is the reigning African Footballer of the Year, Cameroon goalkeeper Carlos Idriss Kameni, Tunisia's Rahdi Jaidi and veteran defenders Samuel Kuffour of Ghana and South Africa's Lucas Radebe will all be playing. Africa is represented among the officials for the game with Jason Damoo of the Seychelles named as one of the assistant referees for the game. However one African star who will miss the clash is Ghana's Michael Essien, whose French club Lyon refused to release him and two other players. There are also several players with African roots set to play in the match with French stars Zinedine Zidane and Patrick Vieira and Belgium's Vincent Kompany among those confirmed by Fifa. The two captains for the game will be Brazil's World Footballer of the Year, Ronaldinho and Ukraine's European Footballer of the Year, Andriy Shevchenko.
FA Cup losing its sheen The FA Cup used to be sacrosanct. Regardless of the demands on the top teams they would always field their strongest teams in the FA Cup. Nobody messed about with the FA Cup and it is disappointing that this has changed. It has all come about from the number of competitions that the top sides enter and the amount of games they play in a season. I'm not saying there are necessarily more competitions but more teams play in Europe and the Champions League is fixture intensive. Foreign coaches in particular seem to want to rest more players in the FA Cup - they probably don't realise the stature and long history of the competition. The Champions League is the main competition for the top managers, followed by the Premiership and the FA Cup comes in a poor third. I think this is bound to affect the way in which people view the competition - and it takes some of the gloss off Burnley's brilliant victory over Liverpool. Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez fielded a lot of their youngsters who usually play in the reserves and Burnley were justifiable winners. They played some good football, were well organised and had too much experience for their opponents. I think the majority of Championship teams are now too good for Premiership reserve sides. Nonetheless, as a manager of a Championship team I would always rather play a full-strength Premiership team. Obviously coming up a side without many first-choice players increases your chances of winning the tie but you want to play against the big names. As Burnley boss Steve Cotterill correctly pointed out, Liverpool had some good players in their team, but it was not a full-strength side and that tarnishes the result. The glory is not quite the same. By not playing their first team it almost gives Liverpool an excuse for going out. I was delighted that Aston Villa played their best side when we played them. Our victory, along with Burnley's win on Tuesday, Sunderland's victory over Crystal Palace and West Ham's defeat of Norwich is good news for the Championship. It shows the quality that is within the Championship - and how little difference there is between the top clubs in the division and the lower-end Premiership clubs. Finally this week, a word on the dispute between Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger. There have been calls for a summit to end the row - but if I'm honest I have to say I enjoy reading about it. Alex and Arsene are two experienced managers who know what they are doing and I say let them get on with it. The big winner from all of this is Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho. I really enjoy watching his post-match news conferences and he has been a breath of fresh air in the Premiership. Manchester United and Arsenal have had it their own way for so long that it is good to have a new kid on the block.
Greece defy the odds at Euro 2004 Greece arrived in Portugal for Euro 2004 as 150-1 outsiders who had never won a match at a major tournament. Four weeks later, manager Otto Rehhagel was a legendary figure in Greece and Angelos Charisteas had written his name into footballing legend. Charisteas scored the winner in the 1-0 final victory that sank hosts Portugal. England's Wayne Rooney may have been the individual star of the tournament, but when it came to the best team, the super-efficient Greeks stole the show. Rehhagel's combination of unsung stars and shrewd tactics proved beyond the bigger names in the tournament. Greece started and finished Euro 2004 by beating Portugal, who improved throughout the competition under former Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari. Favourites France were overcome 1-0 in the quarter-final while form side the Czech Republic were beaten by the same score in the semi-final. For England, another major tournament only brought more frustration. England opened against France in the Stadium of Light, and looked to be on the way to victory thanks to Frank Lampard's first-half goal. But captain David Beckham missed a penalty and with it went England's hopes of victory. Zinedine Zidane hit a last-minute equaliser from a free-kick then scored a dramatic winner. He converted from the spot after David James brought down Thierry Henry after he intercepted Steven Gerrard's pass. Enter Rooney, with two goals in the 3-0 win against Switzerland, a feat he repeated in the 4-2 win against Croatia that sealed a quarter-final place. Sadly for England, Rooney broke his foot shortly after Michael Owen had put them ahead against Portugal. Helder Postiga equalised, but England were cursing when a last-minute header by Sol Campbell was disallowed. Rui Costa put Portugal ahead, but Frank Lampard struck his third goal of the tournament to send it to penalties. Beckham's penalty miss proved crucial and when Darius Vassell also missed, Portugal keeper Ricardo sealed the win. Another man with Premiership links, Liverpool's Milan Baros, was the leading scorer with five goals in the tournament in an excellent Czech side. The Czechs were involved in the best game, coming from two goals down to beat Holland 3-2. Germany were one of the major disappointments, with Rudi Voeller's side failing to reach the last eight. A 2-1 defeat against the Czechs sent Germany out and ended Voeller's reign. And Holland coach Dick Advocaat, who took the blame of a nation after the shock defeat against the Czech Republic, also left his job. The Dutch lost 2-1 to Portugal in the semi-final and that was enough to prompt a change in the Dutch hierarchy. Spain once again failed to produce, missing out on the last eight after they lost 1-0 to great rivals Portugal in the hostile Alvalade Stadium. Italy were another major team that failed to reach the last eight, going amid wild claims of collusion between Denmark and Sweden in their 2-2 draw. But Greece gave Euro 2004 a gloriously unpredictable chapter in football's history, and were deserving winners. It was a tournament played out in good spirit and had perfect hosts in the Portuguese crowds who packed grounds. Their gracious behaviour towards the winners, even after losing the final, gave Euro 2004 a fitting finale.
The wonder of Ronaldinho Ronaldinho has the most famous smile in football - but it is the grins his incredible talent has put on the faces of fans that ensured he picked up the World Player of the Year award on Monday night. The Brazilian landed the prize ahead of strikers Thierry Henry of Arsenal and AC Milan's Andriy Shevchenko after a year in which his dancing feet dazzled defenders and delighted fans. Henry and Shevchenko led their clubs to the league titles in England and Italy while Ronaldinho ended last season trophy-less. But while Ronaldinho's achievements may not have won him any medals, they have won him the hearts of a football world. He has turned despair into delight at Barcelona since deciding to move to the Nou Camp instead of Manchester United and, in the process, brought a joy back to the sport. Barcelona were an ailing club thirsty for former glories to be restored as they hung heavily in the shadows of the "galacticos" of arch-rivals Real Madrid. But the arrival of Ronaldinho in July 2003 has spearheaded a rapid rise which now sees the Catalan club playing the kind of flamboyant football encapsulated by the dashing skills of their playmaker and inspiration. He has fans on the edge of their seats as they wonder what marvels the boy from Brazil will produce to amaze them. Ronaldinho's magic rarely disappoints and, while he possesses all the feints, step-overs, shoulder-drops and vision one could wish for, he also has the crucial ability of complementing his skills with an end product. His victory in Fifa's annual vote may be hard for Henry and Shevchenko, who have amazed with their exploits, but Ronaldinho just has that little extra va-va voom. Ronaldinho can add the award to the World Cup winners medal he earned with Brazil at the 2002 World Cup and the 1999 Copa America title. Ronaldinho - full name Ronaldo de Assis Moreira - has come a long way from his humble origins in Porto Allegre, where he was spotted by his hometown club Gremio at the age of 18. His flamboyance and vision was a key factor as Brazil won the World under-17 title in 1997, and in 1999 he captured the attention of then-Brazil coach Wanderley Luxemburgo with 15 goals in 14 matches for Gremio. Ronaldinho made his international debut that year and announced himself on the world stage with a sensational solo effort against Venezuela in the Copa America, which Brazil went on to win. A protracted transfer saga saw him move to Paris St Germain where his relationship with the French club was far from harmonious, and coach Luis Fernandez was not amused when he turned up late following a trip home at Christmas. There was also discontent about the samba star's penchant for dancing at Parisian night spots as much as waltzing past opponents. But Barcelona were confirmed admirers and a year later his club career - which had been somewhat grounded - really took off after a move to Spain. Sir Alex Ferguson had been confident of tempting him to Manchester United, but the lure of the Nou Camp was too strong. Things did not go that well at the start of his life in Spain, but following the winter break, Ronaldinho and Barcelona hit top gear, finishing the campaign strongly and earning a Champions League place. Transfer speculation has followed him throughout his young career and almost inevitably he was linked with Chelsea this summer. But even the Blues' billionaire owner Roman Abramovich could not prise him away from Barca, who rewarded him with an improved contract with a buy-out clause of £100m.
2004 - A year to remember Club football in South America continues to suffer from the continent's economic crisis. The best players are lured across the Atlantic - 900 players left Brazil alone in 2004. And crowds are low, with money tight and the fear of violence proving a powerful incentive to stay at home. The average attendance in this year's Brazilian Championship was a record low of 8,139. Furthermore, in 2004 no new talent exploded on the continent with quite the same force as Diego, Robinho and Carlos Tevez in the two previous years. There is no doubt that the highlight of South America's footballing year has to come from the international game. There were some dramatic tournaments in 2004. The Copa America, held in Peru last July, could hardly have come to a more exciting conclusion. With the last kick of the final Brazil scored one of the most decisive equalising goals in the history of football. Argentina thought they had the game won and were in no state to take penalties when Adriano's 93rd-minute blast forced a shoot-out. Earlier in the year there was intense disappointment for Brazil when they amazingly failed to qualify for the Olympic football tournament. The gold medal is the only title they lack but they will have to wait four more years after missing out on the two qualification slots up for grabs in South America's Under-23 Championships, held in Chile in January. Argentina and Paraguay made it through and went on to secure gold and silver in Athens. These tournaments were terrific but the real highlights of the year in South American football could only come from the World Cup qualification campaign. The reason? It is the only time that all the great players come back home and play competitive matches in front of their own fans. I well remember getting a shiver down my spine awaiting the kick-off of the match between Brazil and Argentina at the start of June. Euro 2004 was about to get under way. The thought struck me that the accumulation of talent on the Belo Horizonte pitch was at least as outstanding as that about to go into action in Portugal. For 90 minutes Brazil was the capital of the football world. Ronaldo obviously felt the sense of occasion. He will probably never play a bigger match in Brazil and it was taking place in the stadium where he had made his name over a decade earlier. He was unstoppable, suffering and scoring three penalties in Brazil's 3-1 win. If Ronaldo's performance was the individual highlight of the year, my collective prize goes to Argentina in a match they played a few months later. In October I was down in Buenos Aires to see their first match under new coach Jose Pekerman. Nerves were settled with an early goal and old rivals Uruguay were blasted away. Soon after half-time Argentina were four up and although Uruguay hit back with two consolation goals, it was the performance of the hosts that lingers in the memory. Argentina's goals were magnificent team efforts involving all of the fundamentals of well-played football. The ball moved quickly around the field, with plenty of running off the ball to provide options and lots of crisp, accurate passing, mixing long and short to find gaps in the defence. The crowd responded in fine style, creating the kind of atmosphere familiar to all those old enough to remember the 1978 World Cup. These, then, were my highlights of 2004. With seven vital rounds of World Cup qualifiers scheduled for next year, South American football should come up with much more to celebrate in 2005.
Argentine great Caniggia retires Former Argentina international Claudio Caniggia has retired from playing football at the age of 38. The striker enjoyed a glittering career, playing with Boca Juniors, River Plate, Roma, Benfica, Dundee and Rangers among others. He was also suspended for 13 months after testing positive for cocaine while with Roma in 1993. "I work out every day, but after seven months without activity, I don't want to play football anymore," he said. "I had offers, but none of those convinced me. Being 38 and after thinking a lot about it, I made this decision," he told Argentine radio station Del Plata. His next decision is where to live. "Now I'm in Scotland, but I'm moving all around Europe," he added. "I live in Glasgow because my children go to school there, but I have to be honest, it's too cold!" Caniggia played in the Argentina team that finished runners-up at the 1990 World Cup in Italy, and was also a member of the side at USA 94 and Japan and Korea 2002. He became something of a hero after moving to Dundee in 2000 and won a move to Rangers, where he won two Scottish Cups, two League Cups and the SPL title. He then joined Al Arabi in Qatar but has since returned to Scotland.
Taking the highs with the lows I thought we gave a tremendous performance against Arsenal last week. And I have to say that anyone who saw our disallowed goal must realise there is no way it should ever have been ruled out. It was interesting to hear the TV pundits ask if it was disallowed because Dennis Bergkamp had been sent off moments before. I was surprised by the number of people who questioned whether the referee was trying to level things out. The major decision, which defeated me really, was the caution given to Cesc Fabregas for his tackle on Nick Montgomery. To me, that should have been a straight red card. Yet all I saw in the papers were accusations that Danny Cullip allegedly stamped on Fabregas. But when I watch it back, I don't see anything wrong there at all. As I've said in the past, you don't seem to get the rub of the green when you're a lower league club in these competitions. But we have to go into the replay without any fear and that's what will happen come Tuesday. The only thing we can learn from Arsenal's Champions League defeat against Bayern Munich is that we were even worse in our loss at Plymouth. We got beaten 3-0 and never looked like scoring! At least Arsenal got a goal and have a chance of winning at home in the second leg - and they've done that in the past. Whether they'll now want to risk their big stars on Tuesday against us, knowing they need to beat Bayern 2-0 a week later, is debatable. Unfortunately, we have not got a squad big enough to be able to rotate. And we're very thin on the ground for the replay - it looks like we'll be missing three or four of our better players. We don't know if goalkeeper Paddy Kenny will be okay after being carried off against Plymouth, and Cullip will be suspended. However, although the Cup is diverting our attention, the chances are we won't win it. So the league has to be our priority. An even more important match than the one against Arsenal comes on Saturday when we have to beat the Championship's bottom club Rotherham. And I will be reiterating to my players that we have 14 games left in the league and we have to start winning if we want to be in the play-offs. We've lost four in a row in the league now, but we haven't got time to feel sorry for ourselves.
Blatter suggests offside change Fifa president Sepp Blatter has recommended a radical change to football's offside laws. Blatter wants to simplify the current laws which partially rely on the interpretation of assistant referees. "You must make the rule simpler by saying only the player who receives the ball can be offside - there should not be passive offsides anymore," he said. "This means a player without the ball cannot be ruled offside. Purists will scream, but it's a simpler rule." Blatter said he was not in favour of video technology overall, but admitted that Fifa was looking at the possibility of experimenting with goal-line technology to decide if the ball had crossed the line or not. "One thing that is possible, and for which we're looking for an acceptable solution, is the control of the goal-line to find out whether the ball was in or out," said Blatter. The 69-year-old also said he was keen to remain president of football's world governing body until 2011. "Let's first complete the 2006 World Cup. And then, if I'm still in good health, I will still feel like continuing my work at Fifa because I was seriously hampered in my first term. "The first half of my first term (between 1998 and 2002) doesn't count. If national associations tell me to go on, why shouldn't I stand once again?"
Molby says Gravesen is Real deal Jan Molby is convinced fellow Dane Thomas Gravesen will be a major success when he leaves Everton for Real Madrid. Gravesen is set to join the Spanish giants after the clubs agreed a £2m-plus fee for the player. Molby told BBC Sport: "It is a little bit of a surprise, but there is no doubt the talent is there with Thomas. "It is there for everyone to see. I'm sure he will do a good job. They will be looking for him to be the strong man, but he has exceptional ability." Gravesen is out of contract at the end of the season and would be able to leave on a free transfer but Real are expected to pay up to £2.5m to sign the midfielder in January. Molby said: "The strength of the majority of the players at Real is going forward, and maybe not having a lot of defensive qualities. "Thomas has been playing more of a free role this season at Everton, but when he plays for Denmark he has a lot of defensive duties and he can do that as well. "Real will want Thomas to sit in there and make them defensively sound, with all the superstars going forward. But he can be trusted with the ball, and if he does venture forward he is more than good enough to do some fancy work." Gravesen is a strong personality and a major figure at Everton - but he will be reduced to the ranks among the big names assembled at The Bernabeu. Molby said: "Thomas likes to be the leader and he wouldn't go down as a 'galactico' signing. "It will be interesting to see what happens the first time he gets upset with Zinedine Zidane, Ronaldo or Raul for not tracking back - but that's all part of the way he is. "He is a strong personality and he has to keep that if he is to function at 100%. But it is a once in a lifetime opportunity and I don't think he will spoil it by being too petulant. "He has had a very, very good season at Everton. I always felt he was a very good player, a better player than he had shown at Everton. "He has played well for Denmark at European Championships and World Cups and now he's showing that form for Everton. As Everton have progressed he's got better and better." Molby believes Everton's hopes of qualifying for Europe would be dealt a devastating blow if Gravesen leaves. He said: "It would be a massive, massive setback. People talk about the success of Tim Cahill, Lee Carsley playing well in the holding role, Marcus Bent's goals and the work of the defensive boys - but the catalyst is always Thomas Gravesen. "For Everton to lose Gravesen and that extra bit of quality he gives you that wins matches would be a real blow. There are not a lot of players around like that." But Molby said Gravesen's respect for Everton manager David Moyes means he may yet stay. He added: "If there are any doubts, then I know he really likes David Moyes and enjoys living on Merseyside. "I'm sure the two of them will have a chat, but it is always difficult to turn down Real Madrid."
Dein concerned by Chelsea stance Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein has voiced concern at Chelsea's stance over the Ashley Cole controversy. The Premier League is to examine "further information" from a newspaper claiming Chelsea made an alleged illegal approach for the defender. Chelsea have denied that Cole met boss Jose Mourinho to discuss a move, which would breach Premier League rule K3. "From the evidence I have seen so far there is a huge credibility gap," Dein told the News of the World. A Premier League statement read: "We received further information from the News of the World newspaper, which we will study for any facts that might be relevant to our deliberations. "Further discussions will take place between the Premier League board and both clubs next week." The Premier League had said it would only launch an investigation if there was a complaint, which has so far not been forthcoming from Arsenal. In an attempt to defuse the situation, England star Cole told Arsenal's website: "I'm under contract here for another two years so I just want to get back to playing football and trying to win the league." Mourinho has called Cole, who has been negotiating an extension to his deal at Highbury, the "best English defender" and says he wants to sign a left-back to provide competition for Wayne Bridge. But the Portuguese coach now wants Gunners boss Arsene Wenger to get in touch with him so they can discuss the situation. He said: "If Arsene wants answers, he can call me. It is true I want to buy a left-back because I only have one and I always want two for every position." Wenger wants Chelsea to make a categorical denial, but is confident Cole will stay at Arsenal. "I am 100% sure Ashley will extend his contract as he is part of the bunch of players who are the core and heart of the team," he said. "Before we complain, we must have evidence the meeting has happened but I don't know how so much assertive evidence comes out in a newspaper if it is just being invented. "It looks to me like it has happened, although I don't know for sure." Meanwhile, Everton boss David Moyes told BBC Radio Five Live that managers often approach a player's agent before talking to the club - but he insisted that talking with a player without his club's consent is a no-go area. "If you mention a player to an agent they are probably on the phone to the player within a minute," he said. "Tapping is probably used sometimes in a stronger way than that. It's part of football and will be very hard to change. It does happen a lot. "A lot of deals are done correctly but if you find out who the agent is and whether the player is interested, is that tapping? It will be nearly impossible to stop. "If the case got to where the manager met a player that would be wrong, action would have to be taken. "It should be manager to manager or chairman to chairman but the way modern football has gone I don't think that happens. There is a way the player gets got to but that is part of football. "I don't think it is right but that is the way it works."
Ronaldinho denies Blues interest Fifa World Player of the Year Ronaldinho says he has no intention of leaving Barcelona to join Chelsea. "I never said I wanted to play for Chelsea. I'm very happy where I am and want to carry on where I am," he said. "I want to be part of the history of Barcelona as a winning player. Barcelona has given more to me than I have to them." The Brazilian added: "From the first day I have had lovely surprises. Barcelona, for me, is perfect." Ronaldinho's words will reassure Barca after the Brazilian previously said he was interested in moving to England. He was quoted as saying: "What Chelsea are doing is absolutely amazing. I respect them a lot and can see maybe see myself living in London one day." Barca meet Chelsea in the last 16 of the Champions League and Ronaldinho is expecting a tough time against the London outfit. "I hope we can reach the final of the Champions League, but it is a very strong competition," he said. "Chelsea are one of the highest-ranking teams."
Prinz beats Hamm to Fifa trophy Germany's Birgit Prinz has been named Fifa women's player of the year for the second year running. The striker won the vote with 376 points, well ahead of American Mia Hamm (286) and 18-year-old Brazilian Marta (281). Prinz paid tribute to both Hamm and Marta. "I am delighted to be one of the three nominees," she said. "Mia is nothing less than a role model for women footballers, while Marta represents the future. "If you saw what she did at the U-19 World Championship, you'll know what I'm talking about." Prinz, who starred for Germany as they won the World Cup in 2003, was expected to lead her country to Olympic gold in Athens this year. But despite Prinz finishing the tournament as joint top scorer, Germany had to settle for bronze. They began the tournament with an Olympic record 8-0 win over China, with Prinz netting four times. But in the semi-finals, Germany were upset by a Hamm-inspired USA after extra-time. The USA went on to take gold at the expense of Brazil, with Hamm announcing her retirement immediately after the Games. Prinz's performances for Germany, as well as for club side FFC Frankfurt, led to a well-publicised approach from Perugia president Luciano Gaucci. Gaucci, who had already made headlines for signing the son of Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi, wanted to make Prinz the first female player to play for a Serie A side. But though she admitted to considering the offer, Prinz turned it down. "The comparisons between me and world class men's players are flattering, but I believe they don't fit reality," she said. And to Gaucci's reported description of her as "very beautiful" with a "great figure", Prinz responded: "I'm not especially suited to be a glamour girl." The issue of women playing alongside men was brought up again on the day of the Fifa awards. A second division club in Mexico announced the signing of Maribel Dominguez - but the move was blocked by Fifa. And on Monday, Prinz commented: "I'm not in favour of mixed sex teams. "We need to acknowledge the differences, especially at the physical level, and come to terms with them. In any case, other sports don't have mixed teams."
Cantona issues Man Utd job hint Former Manchester United star Eric Cantona would consider returning to the club as manager one day. But the Frenchman, who made 191 United appearances, would not come back if he felt he could not be creative. "I will not return in the near future," he told MUTV. "If I come back I will need to be involved in football for two or three years because things change. "I do not want to be a manager like everybody else, playing the same system. I want to create something." Cantona says that he would like to follow in the footsteps of Johan Cruyff, who was an innovative coach when he led Barcelona to European Cup glory in 1992. "I remember the 1970s with Ajax and after that Cruyff as a manager at Barcelona," Cantona added. "It was a new system. "It is like in music - when you are a rock star and create something new." The 38-year-old also stated that he is against American tycoon Malcolm Glazer's attempt to take over the club. "I am against this kind of thing because I am like a child - I am a dreamer. I don't want these kind of people to come here," he said. "If it is not Manchester United, if it is not a club where he can earn so much money, do you think he would love to come?" Meanwhile, Cantona is at the centre of a storm after using an obscenity on MUTV on Sunday. Cantona was appearing on a show where supporters quiz guests and it was broadcast at 5.30pm. United apologised but have insisted that they have yet to receive a single complaint about Cantona's comments.
Man Utd urged to seal Giggs deal Ryan Giggs' agent has told Manchester United to end the deadlock surrounding the Welsh winger's contract. Giggs is signed up until 2006 and the 31-year-old is looking for a new two-year deal as he bids to end his playing days at Old Trafford. However, United have only offered a one-year extension in line with their policy of contract negotiations with players over 30. "I don't think he is asking for the world," said agent Harry Swales. He added: "We are not banging on desks and slamming doors. We are just waiting for the gentlemen in grey suits to get back in touch with us. "Ryan isn't asking for any more money and he certainly doesn't want to leave Manchester United. "If he had his way, he would stay with them for the rest of his career. "We have got on well with the board at United and long may that continue. But just at the moment, the ball is in their court." Newcastle and Bolton are reportedly interested in signing the midfielder, who has been one of the main influences behind United's success over the last decade. However, Giggs has always insisted that he is keen to end his career at Old Trafford.
Rivals back anti-racism campaign Manchester United and Arsenal players will wear black and white wristbands when they face each other on Tuesday as part of a new anti-racism initiative. Launching the 'Stand Up, Speak Up' scheme with Thierry Henry, United's Rio Ferdinand said football's ruling bodies should do more to tackle racist abuse. "If an offence is committed, they should make a stand against it before the players do," Ferdinand said. "It should be up to the authorities to come forward." Ferdinand added: "It is a massive issue that needs to be jumped on and addressed. "It is a bit sad that it has taken the initiative of a player to push this issue forward." Henry became involved with the campaign following comments directed at him last year by Luis Aragones. Ferdinand claimed he was surprised by the lack of action taken against the Spain coach, saying: "I think if it had been the England manager who had said something like that, he wouldn't be in a job now."
City tie on as weather hits games Oldham Athletic's FA Cup tie against Manchester City will go ahead despite severe weather conditons, which have hit several games across Britain. Fans had to wait until noon for the match to be given the green light after high winds caused structural damage to two of the stands at Boundary Park. On Friday, Burnley's tie against Liverpool was called off due to a waterlogged pitch. Bad weather has also forced several Scottish Cup matches to be postponed. Gretna's tie against Dundee United, Morton's match at Livingston and Airdrie United at Ross County were all called off. Elsewhere in Scotland, Third Division matches between Albion Rovers and Queen's Park and Elgin and Peterhead were also postponed.
Nike defends under-fire football Nike has defended its Premiership ball, after it was blamed for a spate of goalkeeping errors. England coach Ray Clemence and Arsenal legend Bob Wilson criticised the Nike Total 90 Aerow ball's flight-path. But Corporate Communications Manager Simon Charlesworth told BBC Sport: "There's some minor criticism which I think have been slightly exaggerated. "Overall everything I've heard has been very positive. The ball is more accurate if anything." Arsenal pair Jens Lehmann and Manuel Almunia, Liverpool's Jerzy Dudek and Manchester United's Roy Carroll have been criticised for recent errors. Clemence, who played for England 61 times, believes the ball is partly to blame. "I certainly feel the ball is a major factor in mistakes happening," he told the Daily Mail newspaper. "But you will always get the very best keeper making the odd error and, of course, they are always highlighted." Wilson, who kept goal in Arsenal's Double-winning team in the 1970s, says Papa Bouba Diop's goal for Fulham against Manchester United in midweek highlighted the problem. He said: "We are not talking here about the ability of a David Beckham or a Roberto Carlos to actually bend the ball but lads who just welly it for goal. "The ball now goes either to the right or left, or up, or down, and there's no way you can judge which way it will go." But Charlesworth says the ball - which is also used in the Spanish top-flight - is one of the most accurate on the market. He added: "At the beginning of the season the ball was presented to every manager and as many players as we could reach. The majority have been very happy to use it. "The ball has been designed with three things in mind - making it faster, more accurate and more visible - and all of that in order to bring more excitement to the game. "It's truer, we've tried to make it as round as possible. With old balls the technology didn't allow you to do what you can do now. "You might have had weight over to one side, you might have seaming, the bladder might have not sat in the right way so you could hit one half of the ball and it would do crazy things in the air. "The idea here is we've created everything perfectly even across the circumference of the ball. "It may be that skilled players are able to create things they intended to do easier. "This is where it's getting difficult because people are saying it moved in the air. "It's not the fault of the ball, it's how the player has kicked the ball, to make it move in the air because it's a truer ball and it allows you to do that. "It might be that they are intending that. It certainly doesn't move around like a remote control bumble bee or something. It goes the way it is kicked."
Petit career ended by knee injury Former France midfielder Emmanuel Petit has ended his playing career after failing to recover from knee surgery. The 34-year-old ex-Arsenal and Chelsea star made the decision before Christmas after realising he would never regain full fitness. He told French newspaper L'Equipe: "I knew straight away it was over. Twenty years of your life come to a stop. It's like a small death." Petit had not played since being released by Chelsea last summer. A key member of the France side that won the 1998 World Cup, Petit scored the last goal in their 3-0 victory over Brazil in the final. He won the French League title with Monaco in 1997, and the Premiership and FA Cup double with Arsenal in 1998. Arsene Wenger invited him back to train with the Gunners earlier this season, and at one stage considered giving him a contract. "Globally I'm very proud of my career," Petit added. "My only regret is having to put an end to my career because of an injury like Marco van Basten or Glenn Hoddle." Wenger said on Friday: "I think it is a wise decision because he is in a situation where he couldn't come back to a level where he was. "I know Manu well enough - because I gave him his start when he was 18-years old - to know that he's too proud to walk on the pitch and be the shadow of the player he was. "Somebody asked me today whether I would be looking to bring in a player of his stature and I replied that you don't find players of his quality available in January." Wenger, who brought Petit to England from his former club Monaco in 1997, added: "He was fantastic. I feel his home is at Arsenal Football Club. "We were lucky at Arsenal to have Petit at the peak of the career. He was a tremendous player."
Tapping-up row is so much hot air The big talking point of the week is the issue of making illegal approaches or 'tapping up' a player. As usual, the issue is probably blown out of proportion, but I don't think anyone in football will deny there is a problem with the rules as they apply to recruiting players. I read somewhere at the weekend that they did a straw poll and questioned every player at a particular club as to how he got there. Just about every one said the first approach was through their agent, or a third party or somebody involved with the club. On that basis, under the rules as they stand, they all got there illegally. That's the name of the game these days, I'm afraid. Not that I have ever tapped a player up - I wouldn't dream of it! I know there is a school of thought that says the rules that apply in football just wouldn't be tolerated in the outside business world. In business, if you want to change jobs, you can simply go and have a chat with another prospective employer. But in football you're not allowed to do that. Football does have strange anomalies. For example, the game has a disciplinary procedure where there is no evidence but you can still find yourself in trouble. It's the sort of thing that wouldn't happen in a court of law. Compared to the outside world, football does have some very restrictive practices, and a lot of them have to be looked at, but if you want to be part of it, you have to adhere to the rules. You try and do things the right way, but it's like buying a house. If you do things properly and play by the rules you'll find yourself gazumped. But I don't think the tapping situation is as bad as people say, a lot of it is hot air. By its very nature, the only people who would be approached are the top players who are in demand anyway. I don't think you would find too many approaches being made to bad players. The Championship is building up to an exciting climax, and in beating us 2-0 last week, Ipswich gave signs of what a good team they are. I think a place in the top two is beyond our reach, but any one of 11 teams could make the play-offs and there are still 15 games to go. Of course the play-offs are exciting for fans, but they're not great for the heart-rates of managers. I think I've been involved in five play-off finals now and they should really come with a government health warning. Ideally, you wouldn't want to be involved in the play-offs, and the way to do that is to finish in the top two, but I think that is beyond us now. We've got a decent run-in, we're still trying to strengthen the squad and by the time the next league game comes round I would hope we've got somebody in. But that brings me on to another matter, and the fact that the next game is more than a week away because of international matches. You're always concerned about your players getting injured and some clubs withdraw their players more than others. I always try and let our players go out for international games - it keeps them happy. But the other thorny issue with internationals is that of wages. I think that while players are on international duty, their wages should be paid by their countries. Sometimes, they can be away for a week or more, but the clubs still have to find their wages, even though the player is denied to them for that period of time. Of course, if a player is injured while on international duty, it's the clubs who have to pay his wages while he's out of action and recovering. I think the associations of the country involved should bear some share of the responsibility.
Premier League probes Cole claims The Premier League is to investigate allegations that Chelsea made an illegal approach for Ashley Cole. Arsenal and England defender Cole reportedly met Blues boss Jose Mourinho and chief executive Peter Kenyon in a London hotel 10 days ago. Chelsea have yet to officially confirm or deny the meeting, which would be in breach of Premier League rule K3. Now the Gunners have asked for an inquiry to look into claims that their player has been "tapped up". The Premier League says it will look into "further information" concerning the allegations, which it received from the News of the World on Saturday. Both clubs have pledged to co-operate with the inquiry. A statement from Chelsea read: "Chelsea can confirm it has been in discussions with the Premier League over the last few days and we will be co-operating fully with the inquiry announced today. "It would be inappropiate to make any further comment until the inquiry is completed." The Premier League's statement confirmed Arsenal had asked for the matter to be investigated. It read: "The board is finally able to establish a clear position from Arsenal and is grateful for chairman Peter Hill-Wood's confirmation that his club want the Premier League to investigate the matter and that they will co-operate fully with any inquiry. "The board is also pleased that Chelsea have given a similar undertaking." Gunners vice-chairman David Dein has voiced concern at Chelsea's stance on the issue, and told the News of the World: "From the evidence I have seen so far there is a huge credibility gap." If Chelsea are found guilty of an illegal approach, they could be deducted points - although Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has said he would be opposed to this. Aston Villa were recently given a reprimand by the Premier League after Southampton complained about an approach to James Beattie earlier in the season. Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho, speaking after his side's draw with Manchester City on Sunday, insisted he is not worried about the inquiry or its outcome. "To me, the effect is zero," he said. "I know nothing about it and I don't want to know about it. I'm not worried about it. My life is the same, trying to enjoy my work and my life." Meanwhile, Everton boss David Moyes told BBC Radio Five Live that stopping clubs from approaching players via their agents would be difficult. "It's part of football and will be very hard to change. It does happen a lot," he told BBC Radio Five Live's Sportsweek programme. "It should be manager to manager or chairman to chairman but the way modern football has gone I don't think that happens. "There is a way the player gets got to but that is part of football. I don't think it is right but that is the way it works."
Eriksson warned on Cole comments Premier League bosses have told England manager Sven-Goran Eriksson to keep out of the 'tapping-up' row. Eriksson defended players' rights to talk to other clubs following allegations that Arsenal's Ashley Cole had a secret meeting with Chelsea. But a Premier League spokesman said the rules are very clear on the subject. He said: "A professional footballer under contract doesn't have the right to speak to another club without the permission of his current employer." The spokesman added: "The Premier League rules are clear on that. There is an ongoing inquiry into this matter and if it is proven that the rules have been broken then the guilty parties are liable to be punished." The Premier League is set to investigate whether Chelsea held a secret meeting with the Arsenal defender last month. Eriksson earlier said he was unconcerned if reports that Chelsea made an illegal approach prove to be true. He said: "As a professional footballer it must be your right to listen if some other work is available. "We don't live in a dictatorship, we're in a democracy. It's the same in other professions but normally no problem." He added: "Loyalty is important but contracts end and that is life in football." But former England boss Graham Taylor believes Eriksson should not get embroiled in the club issues. Taylor told BBC Radio Five Live: "I found that when I was England manager, it was somewhat unwise to get yourself involved in club matters and I don't think the club managers will take too kindly to Sven's comments." Eriksson was himself embroiled in controversy in similar circumstances when he was caught secretly meeting Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon in March 2004. He then agreed a contract extension on improved terms with the Football Association and insisted he had done nothing wrong. At the time he argued: "I think that I have human rights to listen to other clubs. You can never convince me I shouldn't have that right. I haven't let anyone down by listening to anyone else. "I never ever talked about money or a contract to any club. I only ever talked about whether there were possibilities if I left the FA. "I think that I have the right to do that. I think that should be allowed, even if you are England manager. It is common sense and a normal work ethic. "If some people think that's disloyal, I'm sorry about that. But to have this job is not just about sitting there, year after year, waiting to be sacked."
Ronaldinho would consider Chelsea Barcelona star Ronaldinho has hinted that he could be open to a move to Chelsea in future. The Brazilian claimed he rejected an offer from the Blues before agreeing a new contract in Spain last summer. But Ronaldinho told the News of the World: "Any great player would want to be part of such a sensational team. "What they are doing is amazing. It is a place where great things are going to happen. I respect them a lot and can maybe see myself in London one day." The 24-year-old has helped transform Barcelona since joining from French side Paris St Germain for £21m in 2003. And while he insists he is happy in Spain at the moment, he has been impressed with how things have developed at Stamford Bridge. "My brother, who is also my agent (Roberto Assis), has spoken to me about Chelsea many times," he said. "I had a chance to move to them before I came to Barcelona but at that time, even though they offered more money, I was not interested. "But I have seen since that Chelsea have a great infrastructure. "I am happy in Barcelona but I cannot rule out playing in another country in the future. I would love to play in England to prove that technical players can succeed there."
Pennant guilty of wasting talent Had Jermaine Pennant fulfilled the enormous potential that convinced Arsenal to pay Notts County £2m for the 16-year-old in January 1999, his fall from grace might have registered more than a blip on football's Richter Scale. But the Nottingham-born winger has repeatedly failed to grasp the opportunities presented to him by the Gunners, so much so that it is inevitable the club will release him when his contract expires in the summer. Pennant effectively blew his chances of ever making it at Highbury by upsetting the club's normally unflappable manager Arsene Wenger, who finally lost patience with the player's poor timekeeping. Now, after being caught drink-driving for the second time in 12 months, Pennant no longer has to worry about whether he makes it to training on schedule. Aged 22, there is no doubt Pennant still has time to resurrect his career when he is freed this summer. Compare his fate with that of West Bromwich Albion striker Lee Hughes, who will be 34 by the time he has served his six-year sentence for causing death by dangerous driving. Pennant may even find himself back at Birmingham City, the club who handed him a lifeline when it became clear his Arsenal career was well and truly over. Blues manager Steve Bruce apparently saw enough in Pennant in the month he was at St Andrews to issue an empassioned plea for leniency ahead of sentencing, claiming he had finally turned the corner. "We've got him in a flat up here, we've got him away from the distractions of London, we've had someone with him for the best part of every day and .. done everything we can to try and put him on the straight and narrow," Bruce said ahead of Tuesday's court hearing. "He's done wrong and we've all done stupid things when we were younger and he admits that now. "You can't describe how stupid he has been but as long as he learns from it, I don't think there is going to be any benefit from sending him to prison." The judge apparently disagreed. Birmingham chairman David Gold said last month he would still be keen to sign Pennant even if the 22-year-old got a custodial sentence. But wherever Pennant ends up, talk will not be of his potential but whether he can steer clear of trouble off the pitch. Pennant has insisted in the past that he does not have an attitude problem. But this is a player who, as well as failing to turn up to training on time, has been: - Caught driving under the influence of alcohol twice; - Sent home by England after breaking a team curfew before a Euro Under-21 qualifier against Turkey in April 2003; - And been sent off in an U-21 friendly against Croatia in August of the same year for punching an opponent, although he claimed he was racially abused. Pennant's supporters may claim that too much fame and money at an early age are in some way to blame for his lapses in judgment. During his sentencing, his lawyer Barry Warburton told the court Pennant had never been in trouble during a difficult childhood in Nottingham, despite growing up on "one of the worst estates" in the city. He had only "intermittent" schooling and when he arrived at Arsenal "had very little reading and writing skills". "They in fact educated him," said Mr Warburton, who had claimed imprisonment "could completely destroy his career". But his childhood aside, Pennant knows he has been treading a fine line for some time. He has publicly stated on numerous occasions that he is grateful to Wenger and Arsenal for their faith in him. Yet he continues to spurn the chances that are given him. It all looked so good for Pennant when he scored a 10-minute hat-trick against Southampton on his full league debut for Arsenal in May 2003. Yet his wayward behaviour coupled with his inability to displace Robert Pires from the Gunners first team mean he is a talent quickly disappearing over the footballing horizon. Whether he vanishes completely is down to him. As Professional Footballers' Association chief executive Gordon Taylor puts it, Pennant is now at a "crossroads in his career". "I hope he has got the strength to come out of this and be better for it," said Taylor.
Mourinho says race is almost over Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has said that his high-flying team are now virtually assured of winning their first Premiership title. Mourinho's side have lost just once in the Premiership, boast a 10-point lead over Arsenal and are a further point clear of Manchester United. "There is so much ground for the teams chasing us to make up," Mourinho told Chelsea TV. "If it goes from 10 to 12 or 13 points then maybe it will be over." Mourinho continued: "Could you ever imagine that with all the new players and a new coach we could be 10 clear at this stage? "Of course 10 points is 10 points, it is better than seven and it is better than five. "But if one day we lose a game or two points and the gap goes from 10 to seven or eight, we are ready to accept it as natural and keep going, controlling the distance." Mourinho took over as Chelsea manager last summer after guiding Porto to Champions League glory as well as the Portuguese league title. Chelsea have conceded just eight goals in 23 Premiership games this season and have won their last six games in the league. The gap between Cheslea and rivals Arsenal or Manchester United means the Blues would have to drop at least 10 points from their remaining 15 games if they are to be caught.
Faye plans to stay at Portsmouth Portsmouth midfielder Amdy Faye is keen to stay at Fratton Park and help keep the club in the Premiership. The Senegalese international has been linked with moves to Middlesbrough, Aston Villa and Bolton after hinting at his desire to play European football. But Faye told the Portsmouth Evening News: "Every week there's a new club I'm linked with - but I'm staying here. "I'm getting tired of hearing all this talk and I'm clear in my mind now that I'm staying at Portsmouth." Faye could well stay after fellow midfielder Nigel Quashie completed his move to re-join former Pompey boss Harry Redknapp at rivals Southampton on Monday. And Redknapp may continue to plunder Portsmouth's midfield, with claims from Fratton Park chairman Milan Mandaric that two top flight clubs are interested in Patrik Berger. Although Mandaric has refused to name the clubs, Southampton are thought to be involved.
Cech sets clean-sheet benchmark Chelsea's Petr Cech set a Premiership goalkeeping benchmark with the aid of a penalty save at Blackburn. Cech's save of Paul Dickov's spot-kick in Chelsea's 1-0 win means the 22-year-old has now gone 781 minutes without conceding a Premiershp goal. That surpasses the previous mark of 694 minutes, set by Manchester United's Peter Schmeichel in 1997. The Czech Republic international said: "The team has been fantastic and I wanted to do my bit to help them win." Cech joined Chelsea last summer for £7m from French club Rennes, and on first arriving at Stamford Bridge, was thought to be an understudy to the established Carlo Cudicini. But Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho had confidence to name the Czech international as his starting goalkeeper and Cech began as he intended to continue with a clean sheet in the Blues' opening day win over Manchester United. Cech has kept a clean-sheet in 19 of Chelsea's 25 Premiership games, and only Bolton and Arsenal have managed to put more than one goal past him in a match. The last player to score past Cech in the Premiership was Arsenal's Thierry Henry in the 2-2 draw on 12 December.
Blackburn 0-1 Chelsea Chelsea extended their lead at the top of the Premiership to 11 points with a slender victory away at Blackburn. Arjen Robben grabbed the winner after five minutes, drilling under the body of Brad Friedel from 20 yards. Blackburn had their chance to equalise from the spot when Paulo Ferreira tripped Robbie Savage but Petr Cech saved brilliantly from Paul Dickov. The game also saw Cech break Peter Schmeichel's record for the longest run without conceding a Premiership goal. The 22-year-old had only to survive four minutes to hold the record outright and by the time the whistle had gone he had extended it to 781 minutes. It was a lively start for the runaway leaders, with Robben and Damien Duff immediately testing the home defence with their blistering pace down the flanks. It was Dutch destroyer Robben who made the early breakthrough, latching on to an Eidur Gudjohnsen header to turn Ryan Nelson inside out and fire under the body of Friedel from 20 yards. Blackburn took their frustration at conceding out on Robben, Aaron Mokoena's clumsy tackle forcing him off after just 10 minutes, the goalscorer cutting a dejected figure as he trudged off the pitch and down the tunnel. But with Joe Cole on in his place the Blues did not take their foot off the gas, Duff hitting a rocket that forced Friedel to scamper across his line and clutch the ball gratefully to his chest. Blackburn eventually awoke from their slumber with Mokoena drilling over and Andy Todd heading wide before Savage went close twice in a minute, the second a blistering strike that whistled wide with Cech well beaten. On the hour mark the hosts got the perfect opportunity to level, referee Uriah Rennie pointing to the spot after Ferreira was adjudged to have clipped Savage's legs in the box. But Cech was more than equal to Dickov's low spot-kick, sprawling away to get his giant left hand in the way and extend his record further in the process. Dickov was caught up in controversy after the Chelsea defenders were unhappy with him twice leaving his foot in on Cech - once after the penalty - and Dominic Matteo was booked for a reckless lunge on Cole as Blackburn threatened to lose their discipline. Chelsea looked comfortable after the break, settling for soaking up Blackburn pressure and hitting their hosts on the counter-attack. Cole and Frank Lampard both saw efforts fly wide as Chelsea sought to extend their slender advantage, though in truth their rock-solid defence never looked like being breached. Dickov continued to pester and probe and search for anything resembling an opening, but Blackburn were simply not up to the task of penetrating a defence that has now shipped just eight goals in 25 league games. Indeed after a relatively quiet game it was Gudjohnsen who sprang to life as the clock ticked down, first lifting a shot over Friedel and wide and then volleying past the post. Dickov hit a low effort that forced Cech to comfortably gather but Chelsea held on to record their eighth Premiership win in a row. Friedel, Neill, Todd, Nelsen, Matteo, Emerton, Thompson (Reid 81), Mokoena, Savage, Pedersen, Dickov. Subs Not Used: Amoruso, Tugay, Enckelman, Johnson. Matteo, Dickov. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Gallas, Terry, Bridge, Tiago, Makelele, Lampard, Duff, Gudjohnsen (Kezman 82), Robben (Cole 11), Cole (Jarosik 79). Subs Not Used: Johnson, Cudicini. Terry, Kezman. Robben 5. 23,414. U Rennie (S Yorkshire).
Man City 1-1 Newcastle Alan Shearer hit his 250th Premiership goal to help Newcastle earn a battling draw against Manchester City. Shearer put Newcastle ahead when he raced on to a raking crossfield ball from Titus Bramble and smashed the ball into the roof of the net. City were inept early on but levelled after the break when Bramble fouled Shaun Wright-Phillips in the box and Robbie Fowler scored from the spot. The home side controlled the closing stages but had to settle for a point. City had handed a debut to loan signing Kiki Musampa on the left-hand of midfield, while Bramble was recalled to the Newcastle defence after Jean-Alain Boumsong failed a late fitness test. Neither side had created anything in front of goal before the Magpies took the lead with nine minutes gone. Bramble's long ball caught out Ben Thatcher, and Shearer ran clear to smash the ball past David James and into the roof of the net. Shearer was involved again soon after as Shola Ameobi came close to making it 2-0 with a curling effort from the edge of the box which flew just over. The Magpies were well on top and City did not manage an effort on goal until Jon Macken sent a looping near-post header high and wide of the target from Thatcher's cross on 28 minutes. Kevin Keegan's men had been struggling when going forward but they were almost gifted a bizarre equaliser before the break when Shay Given completely mis-kicked a Jermaine Jenas back-pass and only just managed to recover and clear. City desperately needed to start the second half with a bang - and they got the break they needed within four minutes. Macken's clever flick released Wright-Phillips and all Bramble could do was haul him down in the box. Referee Andy D'Urso had no hesitation in pointing to the spot and Fowler stepped up to stroke the ball confidently home. That gave City the boost they craved and they pressed forward looking for a second goal. The tide had turned after Newcastle's earlier dominance and Graeme Souness responded by bringing on Nicky Butt for Kieron Dyer to try to increase his side's resilience. But despite City enjoying the lion's share of possession the Magpies were still threatening - Bramble going close with a snapshot from just inside the area. By the end the torrential rain had made conditions treacherous and both sides were struggling to keep hold of the ball. There was still time for Celestine Babayaro to break into the box but he mis-controlled and Newcastle's final chance of snatching victory had gone. - Manchester City manager Kevin Keegan: "At half-time I told the players we needed to up our tempo. We needed to get the crowd going and show we wanted to win the game. "We started the second half well and at the end we were the side going to win. "We would have lost this game last year but we found it within ourselves to get something out of it." - Newcastle manager Graeme Souness on his hopes to persuade Alan Shearer not to retire in the summer: "He is a great example and I have not given up hope. "Put it this way. It will be an easier decision for him if he scores every week as he is now only 14 away from Jackie Milburn's club record (of 186). "He has now scored 250 Premiership goals in a career where he has suffered two very serious injuries. Without those you could have been talking somewhere in the region of 300." Man City: James, Mills, Dunne, Distin, Thatcher, Shaun Wright-Phillips, Barton, Bosvelt, Musampa, Fowler, Macken (Bradley Wright-Phillips 84). Subs Not Used: Weaver, Onuoha, McManaman, Jordan. Booked: Distin, Bosvelt. Goals: Fowler 49 pen. Newcastle: Given, Carr, Andrew O'Brien, Bramble, Babayaro, Bowyer, Dyer (Butt 63), Jenas, Faye, Shearer, Ameobi (Kluivert 65). Subs Not Used: Harper, Hughes, Robert. Booked: Jenas, Bowyer, Andrew O'Brien. Goals: Shearer 9. Att: 45,752 Ref: A D'Urso (Essex).
Tanzania gets Fifa backing Fifa is to give financial support to Tanzania in order to revive football in the country after years of mismanagement. This follows a meeting between officials of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the president of Fifa, Sepp Blatter last week in Switzerland. The TFF President Leodegar Tenga said on Wednesday that Fifa has promised them an immediate donation of office equipment worth US$10,000 and US$17,705 cash. Tenga said that the money would be used to settle part of the debt owed to Caf. African football's governing body has threatened to disqualify the Taifa Stars from its competitions. Tanzania have failed to pay fines imposed on them following their withdrawal from the African Cup of Nations qualifier against Sudan in 2003. Tenga said that Fifa has also offered to organize courses for Tanzanian referees and support development programmes. A full-time Chief Executive Officer (CEO) will be employed in order to draw up a development programme which will also be funded by Fifa. "We will employ a CEO in the near future who will implement our short and long term development programmes", Tenga said. "Fifa has promised to help us in all our programmes which are geared to revive the football in Tanzania." The Tenga-led TFF leadership came into office last year ending the long reign of Muhidin Ndolanga.
Charlton 1-2 Liverpool Fernando Morientes grabbed his first Premiership goal as Liverpool earned all three points at Charlton with a vintage second-half display. Inspired by former Anfield ace Danny Murphy, the hosts took a deserved first-half lead, Murphy swinging in a corner for Shaun Bartlett to head home. But Liverpool, who had struck the bar twice, hit back when Spaniard Morientes rifled in from 20 yards out. John Arne Riise slotted the winner after a neat pass from Luis Garcia. The teams started with virtually identical league records and there was little to separate them on the pitch early on. Liverpool where unlucky not to score when a Garcia shot was spilled by Dean Kiely into the path Steven Gerrard, whose shot bounced back off the crossbar. But then the hosts went in front, Murphy's 20th-minute corner headed home powerfully by Bartlett. Gerrard forced a sharp save from Kiely shortly afterwards as Liverpool looked to redress the balance. And the visiting captain almost set up an equaliser when he cut a clever cross back to Morientes, who saw his shot saved from two yards out. The visitors continued to press forward on the restart. And Riise came within inches of the breakthrough when he latched onto a superb ball from Garcia and hit a rasping drive, which Kiely tipped on to the Charlton bar. Morientes finally found the back of the net when he buried a left-foot shot into the top corner after Charlton had failed to clear. Djimi Traore had to time his challenge well to deny Murphy an instant reply. But Liverpool were in the ascendancy now, with Morientes causing plenty of problems. The Spaniard went close himself, before releasing Riise, who cooly finished with a trademark low drive. Morientes departed to great ovation from the visiting fans, as Charlton's biggest home attendance for 10 years tasted disappointment. - Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez: "We played a very good game with a high tempo and lots of confidence. "We have seen the mentality of the players, the team spirit and the quality we have. "I think we had two or three clear chances in the first half but conceded the goal. In the second half we controlled the game." - Charlton boss Alan Curbishley: "In the first half it was quite even but the second half they totally dominated and looked such a strong side. "We played on Saturday while they&#191;ve had a week's rest but you have got to get on with it. "I'm really disappointed because if we'd held out for a draw it would have been a great bonus for us." Charlton: Kiely, Young, Fortune, El Karkouri, Hreidarsson, Thomas (Kishishev 59), Murphy, Holland (Jeffers 77), Hughes (Euell 66), Konchesky, Bartlett. Subs Not Used: Andersen, Johansson. Goals: Bartlett 20. Liverpool: Dudek, Finnan, Carragher, Hyypia, Traore, Luis Garcia (Potter 90), Biscan, Gerrard, Riise (Warnock 90), Baros, Morientes (Smicer 88). Subs Not Used: Pellegrino, Carson. Goals: Morientes 61, Riise 79. Att: 27,102. Ref: N Barry (N Lincolnshire).
Mourinho sends out warning shot Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho believes his team's Carling Cup win over Manchester United has shown they have the strength to win the Premiership. "It was important for us, not because we got into a final, but also the way we played," he said. "The mentality and the strength we showed here was a message we sent. "It is still difficult, we still have to win 11 matches to be champions but we have left a message here that we are really strong." Chelsea gave their manager a win on his 42nd birthday but Mourinho was prepared for a possible loss at Old Trafford. But the Blues are still on course for a four-pronged trophy assault as they are leading the Premiership title race and are in the FA Cup and Champions League. "We can win four, we can lose four, but it would be normal to win something. To win the four is very, very difficult but it is still possible. "There is a long way to do it but if you could give me the Premiership I would be very happy. "This is just the final though, we have not won the competition and we have to now face another great team in Liverpool." "I was ready to lose the game and leave Old Trafford with a smile just to pass a message of confidence. "But my team would never lose their confidence or mentality just because of a defeat here."
O'Driscoll concern at Fifa ruling Bournemouth boss Sean O'Driscoll is concerned at the impact that the transfer window system could make, if it is applied to Football League clubs next season. The League was recently informed by Fifa that its 72 clubs would no longer receive any further dispensation to trade players outside the world governing body's transfer windows after the end of the current campaign. The matter will now be discussed at the next meeting of all clubs on 10 March - when a League working party set up to consider the implications of Fifa's decision is set to report back. The clubs will then decide on the next step to take, League communications executive Ian Christon confirmed. If it is applied to the Football League, O'Driscoll feels the Fifa-imposed system could harm the chances for young players at Premiership clubs to gain experience in the lower leagues. When injuries have struck, O'Driscoll has used the short-term loan market to bolster his small squad - a move which is not possible under the "window" ruling which currently just applies to the Premiership, and prevents the transfer of players during the season - except during the month of January. "I don't think it benefits anyone in the football industry in England," the Cherries boss told BBC Sport. "We took John Spicer from Arsenal this season, while [last Saturday's opponents] Oldham have taken a few, including Neil Kilkenny from Birmingham. "Kilkenny looks a really good player but was never going to play in the Premiership, so where will these players go? If you don't have the finance to buy them, they get stuck in the reserves. "I watch an awful lot of reserve team games, and you can tell the players who have been there too long, as it doesn't motivate them and they go through the motions. "It becomes extremely difficult to try and pick them, as you think 'if I get him out of there, could he cope in the Football League?' - so it doesn't benefit the big clubs, and doesn't benefit the small clubs. "We've got to come in line with the rest of Europe, but it'll cause us major problems as we live on a knife-edge." However, O'Driscoll accepts that with the loan market blocked, clubs such as Bournemouth will have to look to their own youth ranks when injuries begin to bite. "The better youth systems will play an important part, and you'll have even younger boys being part of the first-team squad," he explained. "We've got two 17-year-olds in our squad who've come through the youth system [James Coutts and James Rowe] and I'm sure we'll have four or five next year - just so they can train with the first team. "Next year, if needed, you're going to have to throw them in - even if you have the finance to bring in a loan player, you won't be allowed. "I think there will be a mad scramble, come the end of the transfer window, to strengthen squads."
Morientes admits to Reds struggle Liverpool striker Fernando Morientes has admited he is struggling to adapt to life in the Premiership. The Spain interational has played twice for the club, losing both times, since his £6.3m move from Real Madrid. "I am finding it hard to adapt but I am better now," the 28-year-old told Marca newspaper. "It's surprising when you see things you are not used to. "I am starting to get to know things, and my wife is looking for a house and a school for the kids." Morientes admitted his difficulty with the English language "worries me" but that having a Spanish manager in Rafael Benitez has helped his cause. "I can understand everything and that is a relief," he said. Despite his concerns, he said he was relishing the move and said there was a "certain magic" about Anfield, which was far calmer than the Bernabeu. Since his arrival, Liverpool have lost 1-0 to Manchester United and 2-0 Southampton in the league, while he watched from the bench as Burnley knocked them out of the FA Cup. But he expects both the manager and the players to turn things around. "The team has had a lot of changes and injuries and that is a handicap when you are looking for results but I am confident we will go a long way," he said. "When you sign a coach like Benitez it is to let him work with a long-term view and that is what is happening. "We are a historic club and fifth in the table but that is not a problem. The confidence that you get given here is incredible."
Chelsea 3-0 Portsmouth Didier Drogba scored twice as leaders Chelsea extended their Premiership winning sequence to seven games. Petr Cech saved from Matthew Taylor before Chelsea took control with Drogba opening the scoring from short range after a neat cutback from Arjen Robben. Frank Lampard's superb pass put Robben through for the second before Yakubu missed a great chance for Pompey. Drogba scored the third with a free kick while substitute Mateja Kezman was inches from a fourth. Chelsea have not dropped a point in the Premiership since drawing 2-2 at Arsenal on 12 December and are moving inexorably towards their first Premiership title. With Arsenal not in action until Sunday, Chelsea lead Manchester United, who moved into second by beating Aston Villa, by 11 points. But Portsmouth are on a poor run of form, with just three wins in 11 Premiership games under Velimir Zajec. Pompey went into the game without the suspended Amdy Faye and Lomana LuaLua and injured duo Steve Stone and Andy Griffin. But the visitors started well, dominating possession in the opening minutes while their esteemed opponents seemed uncharacteristically sluggish. Patrik Berger struck the Chelsea wall with a free-kick and Taylor forced Cech in action with a drilled shot from a tight angle. But Chelsea soon started to assert themselves on the contest with crisp, incisive passing that Pompey struggled to contain. Robben broke down the right and did amazingly well to stay on his feet as he cut inside past Gary O'Neil before drilling a precise low cross for Drogba to tap home. The superb Robben, 21 on Sunday, scored Chelsea's second in the 21st minute. Drogba laid the ball off to Frank Lampard, whose wonderfully weighted pass caught the Pompey defence static. Robben still had a lot to do and seemed to lose his balance after rounding Jamie Ashdown but kept on his feet to convert from a very tight angle. Damien Duff came close to a third just before the half-hour mark but Ashdown saved low down. Yakubu had a great chance to bring Pompey back into the match but shot just wide when clean through after Frank Lampard's poor pass had sold Terry short. And his failure to put the opportunity away was clinically punished by Drogba, who struck a free-kick over the wall and past Ashdown after David Unsworth hacked Robben to the ground. O'Neil forced Cech into action with a free-kick after the break but the keeper was equal to the test. Both Drogba and Joe Cole scuffed opportunities to extend their lead after a teasing cross from Duff. Drogba went down under a challenge from Dejan Stefanovic but appeals for a penalty were waved away by referee Mike Riley. Mourinho introduced Eidur Gudjohnsen, Tiago and Mateja Kezman - the latter coming within inches of scoring after drilling the ball across Ashdown's goal. Lampard almost made it four close to full-time but Ashdown - at the second attempt - saved Lampard's dipping strike. Cech, Paulo Ferreira, Gallas, Terry, Bridge, Lampard, Makelele, Cole, Robben (Kezman 75), Drogba (Gudjohnsen 65), Duff (Tiago 67). Subs Not Used: Cudicini, Jarosik. Drogba 15, Robben 21, Drogba 39. Ashdown, Cisse, Primus, Stefanovic, Unsworth (Mezague 54), Kamara, O'Neil, Hughes, Taylor, Berger, Yakubu (Fuller 65). Subs Not Used: Hislop, De Zeeuw, Curtis. 42,267 M Riley (W Yorkshire).
Worthington praises classy Villa Norwich boss Nigel Worthington said his side's defeat to Aston Villa emphasised the gap in quality between the Premiership and the Championship. "I thought the Villa performance today was very good. I think it comes down to the quality," he said. "The jump from the first division into this level is a hefty leap. We're learning all the time. "Villa's second goal summed it up. We are on the attack, then Robert Green's picking it out at the other end." Worthington said he was happy with the performance of England Under-21 striker Dean Ashton on his Premiership debut after his £3m move from Crewe. "It was very difficult for him but I thought he did exceptionally well," he said. "He got hold of the ball and got shots in, which we've been shy on, so that's a big plus. It's his first Premiership game and he will find it a big step. "We've got to give him time and be patient with him because I know, and he knows, there is a quality footballer in there. "Once he gets attuned to the Premiership he will be one to watch."
Plymouth 3-0 Sheff Utd Plymouth claimed their first win of the year with goals from Graham Coughlan, Paul Wotton and Dexter Blackstock. However, Sheffield United's cause was not helped when they were forced to replace injured keeper Paddy Kenny with midfielder Phil Jagielka on 28 minutes. By that stage the visitors were already one down, Coughlan converting Tony Capaldi's cross with a fierce volley. Wotton beat Jagielka from 25 yards out after the break before Blackstock headed home Peter Gilbert's cross. - Plymouth manager Bobby Williamson said: "We had our luck tonight because their keeper got injured which was unfortunate for them. "But we'd also got an early goal while he was on and that lifted everybody. "I'm delighted that we bounced back from Saturday and our heavy defeat at West Ham and that our sequence without a win is now over." - Sheffield United boss Neil Warnock said: "We expected a tough match and it wasn't pretty. "Plymouth are fighting for their lives, and we knew they would come at us from the off and then to lose your goalkeeper is a blow to any team. "We hung on till half-time but Plymouth scored early in the second half." Plymouth: McCormick, Connolly, Coughlan, Aljofree, Gilbert, Norris, Wotton, Buzsaky, Capaldi, Chadwick, Evans (Blackstock 82). Subs Not Used: Lasley, Gudjonsson, Adams, Taylor. Booked: Wotton. Goals: Coughlan 3, Wotton 47, Blackstock 88. Sheff Utd: Kenny (Thirlwell 28), Geary, Bromby, Jagielka, Harley, Liddell, Tonge (Quinn 59), Montgomery, Cullip, Shaw (Forte 59), Gray. Subs Not Used: Francis, Johnson. Booked: Tonge, Quinn. Att: 13,953. Ref: S Tanner (S Gloucestershire).
Uganda FA suspended In a move likely to incur the wrath of Fifa, Ugandan Sports Minister Geraldine Namirembe Bitamazire suspended the country's FA with immediate effect on Wednesday. Bitamazire ordered the Denis Obua-led executive committee to hand over all the "movable and immovable property of the federation within two weeks." The Uganda FA was due to hold elections next week but the government has called off the poll. The minister has instructed the National Council of Sports (NCS) take over as the interim body as the government conducts an investigation into the affairs of the Uganda FA. The general secretary of the NCS was also ordered to freeze all accounts of the FA and inform the banks that the leadership of this association has lost the mandate to operate these accounts. But the man at the centre of the storm remains defiant, and told BBC Sport that the government's move is not in the interest of Uganda football. "We're only answerable to Fifa," said Obua, who is also the chairman of East and Central Africa's regional body, Cecafa. He added: "The world federation doesn't know our government. They [government] are banning football in Uganda and not Obua." A statement from the sports minister's office said "the FA had been operating in a manner that is inconsistent with the law." It accused the Uganda FA of mortgaging its headquarters which was constructed using funds donated under the Fifa Goal Project. The Uganda FA has been beset by financial problems for some time now. It recently had its furniture attached by court bailiffs for failure to pay outstanding debts.
Man Utd women's team to be axed Manchester United will scrap their women's team once the current season ends, just three months before the North West hosts the Women's Euro 2005. From next season, the club's commitment to women's football will only stretch as far as coaching up to the age of 16. "Our aim is best served concentrating on youngsters," said club director of communications Philip Townsend. "Our resources are better deployed at the level of school-age children rather than adults." Football Association vice-chairman Ray Kiddell, who heads the FA women's football committee, greeted the news with dismay. "It is very disappointing," he said. "The progress of women's football can be really helped by professional clubs taking women's teams under their umbrella. "It is a blow to the game that a great club like Manchester United will no longer be doing this."
SA supports Fifa control South African President Thabo Mbeki said on Thursday the composition of the 2010 World Cup Local Organising Committee (LOC) would "be left up to Fifa". In a show of support for the event, Mbeki said South African government ministers would also be made available for inclusion on the LOC. This came after speculation that there was a rift between Fifa and the South African Football Association (Safa) over who would serve on the committee. Mbeki was speaking to the media after Fifa president Sepp Blatter had accepted a prestigious national award - the Order of the Companions of O.R. Tambo, named after former ANC President Oliver Tambo. "The award is being given to Fifa for its exceptional contribution to the development of football in Africa and its contribution to bringing about South Africa's democracy," said President Mbeki. Other recipients of the award include United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, leading U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King and Kwame Nkrumah, the first prime minister of Ghana. Earlier, Blatter made it clear that the World Cup belonged to Fifa and not Safa, and expressed his preferences for various people to be in particular positions within football in South Africa. In response, Safa president Molefi Oliphant confirmed that Danny Jordaan would be appointed chief executive of the 2010 World Cup LOC. Speaking at a press briefing, Oliphant said: "I said that we would put Mr Blatter's suggestion to the Safa executive and after discussion on the matter it was accepted." The acceptance of Blatter's suggestions means Oliphant will stand for re-election as Safa president instead of stepping aside later this year as he had indicated he would. Blatter said he was delighted with the decision. "These are the three men who helped bring the World Cup to South Africa. "It is important that we have continuity," the Fifa boss said. Jordaan - currently chief executive of Safa - remained tight-lipped on the matter. "My opinion is irrelevant," he said. "You have heard from the Fifa president, you have heard from the Safa president and you have heard from the chairman of the LOC."
Bayern Munich 3-1 Arsenal Arsenal's Champions League hopes hang by a thread after a nightmare performance against Bayern Munich. Claudio Pizarro took advantage of Kolo Toure's mistake to volley Bayern ahead after only four minutes. And Pizarro profited from more poor defending by Toure to head Mehmet Scholl's free kick past goalkeeper Jens Lehmann 12 minutes after half-time. Hasan Salihamidzic volleyed a third on 64 minutes, but Toure pulled a vital goal back with only two minutes left. It salvaged something from a dreadful display by Arsene Wenger's side, and the fact that they failed to create a serious chance until the final minutes underlines the size of the task they face in the second leg at Highbury. The Gunners were forced to restrict Ashley Cole to a place on the bench when he failed to recover from a virus - and their problems worsened inside four minutes. Oliver Kahn's long clearance was met by a poor headed clearance by Toure, and Pizarro met it first time on the volley from 12 yards to give Jens Lehmann no chance. Arsenal had failed to make any attacking impact, and they lost another key figure 10 minutes before the interval, when Edu limped off with a hamstring injury to be replaced by Mathieu Flamini. Their first moment of threat came four minutes before the interval, when Gael Clichy's shot was deflected narrowly wide with Kahn well beaten. Lehmann, jeered throughout by the Bayern crowd because of his bad relationship with Germany's number one goalkeeper and arch-rival Kahn, came to Arsenal's rescue after 51 minutes. Ze Roberto's cross was met on the full by Roy Makaay, and Lehmann reacted brilliantly to turn his effort over the top. But there was no escape after 57 minutes as Bayern doubled their lead, and it was another nightmare moment for Toure. Pizarro lost Toure from Scholl's free-kick and he headed powerfully past Lehmann, who had no chance. And Bayern were out of sight seven minutes later as Arsenal's Champions League hopes looked to have been extinguished. Lehmann could only palm out Martin Demichelis' cross, and Salihamidzic finished with a flourish with a side-footed volley at the far post. But Arsenal grabbed at a slender lifeline when Toure bundled home from close range after Patrick Vieira had hit the post. Kahn, Sagnol, Kovac, Lucio, Lizarazu, Demichelis, Salihamidzic (Hargreaves 74), Frings, Ze Roberto (Scholl 57), Makaay, Pizarro (Guerrero 68). Subs Not Used: Rensing, Jeremies, Linke, Schweinsteiger. Demichelis, Kovac. Pizarro 3, 58, Salihamidzic 65. Lehmann, Lauren, Toure, Cygan, Clichy (Cole 83), Ljungberg (Van Persie 76), Vieira, Edu (Flamini 36), Pires, Reyes, Henry. Subs Not Used: Almunia, Fabregas, Senderos, Larsson. Vieira, Lauren. Toure 88. 59,000. Kim Milton Nielsen (Denmark).
Arsenal 1-1 Sheff Utd Andy Gray's 90th-minute penalty earned Sheffield United a deserved FA Cup replay against 10-man Arsenal. Robert Pires' close-range finish looked to have sent the Gunners into the quarter-finals. But referee Neale Barry pointed to the spot after Philippe Senderos' handball and Gray sent the keeper the wrong way. In an incident-packed game, Arsenal captain Dennis Bergkamp was controversially sent off in the first half for a shove on Danny Cullip. And Cullip subsequently had a headed goal disallowed as United took advantage of a makeshift Arsenal team. Gunners boss Arsene Wenger, already without Sol Campbell, Ashley Cole and Edu, opted to rest Patrick Vieira and Thierry Henry. And while they looked promising going forward, the defence never looked comfortable, particularly against set-pieces. They suffered an early scare when Gray was given a free header but keeper Manuel Almunia palmed away his attempt at the second opportunity. Blades boss Neil Warnock had earmarked Bergkamp as Arsenal's key man and Phil Jagielka was charged with keeping a close eye on the Dutchman. The veteran striker was nonetheless controlling Arsenal's attacking play until his departure. He came closest to giving Arsenal a first-half lead when he saw his curling shot brush the top of the net. However, his influence was brought to an abrupt end after 35 minutes in an incident which began with a late challenge on Cesc Fabregas. A melee ensued and referee Barry picked out Bergkamp, who seemed only to push Cullip, for punishment, leaving Wenger incredulous. The controversy continued in a frantic end to the half. Cullip thought he had put his side ahead when he flicked home Leigh Bromby's long throw-in - but the referee saw a foul. The half ended on another sour note when Fabregas left Nick Montgomery motionless with a shocking late tackle. Fabregas was lucky to escape with just a booking, but Montgomery was perhaps luckier to get up from the challenge. The second half began in relative calm but burst into life again when Reyes was denied a penalty - and seconds later was booked for an ugly challenge on Jon Harley. Arsenal looked to have avoided a replay when Pires tapped in 12 minutes from the end after United keeper Paddy Kenny had parried Fabregas' shot. But Senderos handled Cullip's hooked shot giving Gray the chance to equalise - and he took it with aplomb. The replay will be at Bramall Lane on Tuesday 1 March. - Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger: "The boys responded very well (to Bergkamp's sending-off). "The second half was all us and we had three good chances to score a second goal. In the end we got caught. "But overall the performance was good. The young lads can be very proud." - Sheffield United manager Neil Warnock: "It is a fantastic result for me personally and the club. "It is not very often that you come to a place like this and get the right result. It looked like it was going to be a bit cruel. "I didn't think we deserved to lose. When they scored I think everyone wrote us off but we have got a lot of character in the team." Arsenal: Almunia, Eboue, Toure, Senderos, Clichy, Ljungberg, Fabregas, Flamini, Reyes (Cygan 86), Bergkamp, Van Persie (Pires 65). Subs Not Used: Taylor, Larsson, Owusu-Abeyie. Sent Off: Bergkamp (35). Booked: Fabregas, Reyes. Goals: Pires 78. Sheff Utd: Kenny, Harley, Montgomery (Forte 82), Thirlwell (Shaw 45), Jagielka, Liddell (Francis 82), Bromby, Tonge, Cullip, Geary, Gray. Subs Not Used: Cadamarteri, Quinn. Booked: Liddell, Thirlwell, Cullip. Goals: Gray 90 pen. Att: 36,891 Ref: N Barry (N Lincolnshire).
Crusaders 2-3 Ballymena United Ballymena United came back from a goal down to take the Daily Mirror Irish Premier League points at Seaview despite a late fightback by Crusaders. Darren Stirling gave the Crues the lead before Matthew Nolan and then Oran Kearney put the visitors in front. Nolan stretched his side's lead with his second goal early in the second half. However, Crusaders never gave up and Chris Morrow fired in their second goal but it was too late to retrieve the situation. After a dull opening period, the game came alive in the 25th minute when Stirling put the Crues in front when he fired home a shot from a Morrow cross. But Ballymena stormed back with two goals before the break. In the 28th minute the energetic Rory Hamill floated over a free-kick and Nolan, the on-loan striker from nodded past Neil Armstrong. Hamill again was the instigator four minutes later when he threaded through a pass for Kearney to latch on to and plant an unstoppable shot into the net. Ballymena increased their lead six minutes after the restart when Nolan pounced on a Stevie Livingstone deflection to grab his second goal. Crusaders made sure that Ballymena had a nervous final few minutes when Morrow darted in to score.
Van Nistelrooy hungry for return Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy said he was "hungry to play" as he returned to training on Tuesday. The Dutch striker, 28, is closing in on a comeback after nearly three months out with an Achilles injury. "I can't wait to get back training and meet up with my team-mates again," he told the Daily Mirror newspaper. "I'm ahead of schedule and I've made good progress with my physio in Holland. I have been away from United for a long time, but I'm fit again." United boss Sir Alex Ferguson hinted at a return for Van Nistelrooy in the FA Cup fifth round tie at Everton on Saturday. He said: "There is a chance he could be involved at Everton but we'll just have to see how he comes through training." United did not lose any of the 14 games in which Van Nistelrooy was involved before his injury - although their form has remained good since he was sidelined. Their 2-0 derby win at Manchester City on Sunday made it 13 wins in 15 league games. However, Van Nistelrooy is still the club's top scorer this season with 12 goals, despite being out since the 3-0 win against West Brom on 27 November. United have also been hit by injuries to both Alan Smith and Louis Saha during Van Nistelrooy's absence, meaning Wayne Rooney has sometimes had to play in a lone role up front. The teenager has responded with six goals in nine games, including the first goal against City on Sunday.
Keane defiant over Vieira bust-up Manchester United captain Roy Keane has insisted that he does not regret his tunnel bust-up with Arsenal's Patrick Vieira - and would do the same again. Keane clashed with midfield rival Vieira before United's 4-2 win in the fiery match at Highbury on 1 February. The Irishman stepped in to protect United defender Gary Neville, who rowed with Vieira before the match. "I'd had enough of Vieira's behaviour and I would do what I did again tomorrow if I had to," said Keane. Keane admitted that Neville may also have been at fault over the incident, which added further ill-feeling to an already-tense atmosphere. "It takes two to tango. Maybe Gary deserves to be chased up a tunnel every now and then - there would be a queue for him, probably," he added. "But you have to draw a line eventually." Keane said the trouble between Vieira and Neville was more serious than mere name-calling. "I'm usually first out in the tunnel but I had a problem with my shorts and I was maybe fourth or fifth out and by the time I got down I saw Vieira getting right into Gary Neville again," he said. "I mean physically as well now. I don't mean verbally."
Tartan Army given safety pledge Scotland fans will be able to watch the World Cup qualifier with Italy in a safe section of the San Siro - thanks to well-behaved Celtic supporters. The Scots will sit above the home fans to avoid the shower of missiles which greeted Welsh supporters two years ago. SFA security boss Willie McDougall said the good conduct of Celtic fans earlier this season was a contributing factor. "That night, plus the record of the Tartan Army, meant they (Italy chiefs) were willing to accommodate," he said. "Our fans will be in the second and third tiers but not beneath the Italians, which caused so much trouble in that Wales match. "We will have 10,000 tickets which may extend to 13,000. They will be section two and three in the stadium behind the goals." McDougall told the Daily Record: "We had a meeting on Friday and the local police were there along with the national police and members of the Italian FA. "And they all said how impressed they were with the Celtic fans' behaviour during the Champions League game against AC Milan."
Morocco 5-1 Kenya Morocco thrashed Kenya 5-1 in a 2006 World Cup qualifier on Wednesday in Rabat. The victory sees the Atlas Lions move to the top of Group Five with nine points from their five matches so far. Jaouad Zairi was the hero for Morocco as he scored hat-trick with his first goal coming after just 12 minutes. He then doubled the lead six minutes before half-time. Mounir Diane made it 3-0 with a goal just a minute into the second half. Youssouf Hadji put the result beyond doubt when he found the target nine minutes before the final whistle. Zairi completed his hat-trick with a goal in the last minute of the match. The Harambee Stars captain Musa Otieno grabbed a consolation goal for Kenya deep into injury time.
