Henman overcomes rival Rusedski Tim Henman saved a match point before fighting back to defeat British rival Greg Rusedski 4-6 7-6 (8-6) 6-4 at the Dubai Tennis Championships on Tuesday. World number 46 Rusedski broke in the ninth game to take a tight opening set. Rusedski had match point at 6-5 in the second set tie-break after Henman double-faulted, but missed his chance and Henman rallied to clinch the set. The British number one then showed his superior strength to take the decider and earn his sixth win over Rusedski. Serve was held by both players with few alarms until the seventh game of the final set, when Rusedski's wild volley gave Henman a vital break. A furious Rusedski slammed his racket onto the ground in disgust and was warned by the umpire. Henman, seeded three, then held his serve comfortably thanks to four serve-and-volley winners to take a clear 5-3 lead. Rusedski won his service game but Henman took the first of his three match points with a service winner to secure his place in the second round at Dubai for the first time in three years. It was the first match between the pair for three years - Henman last lost to Rusedski six years ago - and lasted two hours and 40 minutes. The pair are now likely to only face each other on court as rivals - rather than as team-mates - after Henman decided to retire from Davis Cup tennis leaving Rusedski to lead the team out against Israel on 4-6 March. Henman, who now faces Russian Igor Andreev in the last 16, admitted afterwards it was difficult coming up against his compatriot on a fast surface. "You just take it point by point when you're fighting to stay in the match," he said. "I had to keep playing aggressively and competing to get a chance. "I now have to recover in time for the next match because the body doesn't recover as quick as it used to, especially after two hours and 40 minutes."
Safin slumps to shock Dubai loss Marat Safin suffered a shock loss to unseeded Nicolas Kiefer in round one of the Dubai Tennis Championships. Playing his first match since winning the Australian Open, Safin showed some good touches but was beaten 7-6 (7-2) 6-4 by the in-form Kiefer. The German got on top in the first-set tie-break, striking a sweet forehand to win the first point against serve. And he maintained the momentum early in the second set, breaking the Russian with the help of an inspired volley. Spain's Feliciano Lopez lined up a second round clash with Andre Agassi by beating Thailand's Paradorn Srichaphan. Lopez, who lost in three sets to Roger Federer in last year's final, won 6-2 3-6 6-3. Former champion Fabrice Santoro of France was beaten 6-3 6-0 by sixth seeded Russian Nikolay Davydenko. There were also wins for two other Russians, Igor Andreev and seventh seed Mikhail Youzhny.
Ferrero eyes return to top form Former world number one Juan Carlos Ferrero insists he can get back to his best despite a tough start to 2005. The 2003 French Open champion has slipped to 64 in the world after a year of illness and injuries in 2004, but is confident that his form will return. "I don't know when it is going to happen," Ferrero told BBC Sport. "But I have a lot of confidence in me that I will be the same Juan Carlos as I was before, and very soon. I feel 100% again mentally." The 25-year-old Spaniard joins a top field for the ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament in Rotterdam this week as he looks to add to just two wins in 2005. He opens against Rainer Schuettler and potentially faces fourth seed David Nalbandian in the second round. "Because I'm no longer seeded it's tougher," Ferrero admitted. "I had to play against Joachim Johansson in the first round last week in Marseille. "In the past when I was a top seed I would have played a match like that in the quarters or semi-finals. "This is the big difference but I have to do it to get higher in the rankings." Despite this, Ferrero insists he is feeling positive after chicken pox and a rib injury destroyed last season. "Physically I am 100% since December of last year," said Ferrero. "I was working very hard before the Davis Cup final to prepare and I've felt 100% from then until now. "The difficult moments were when I knew that I had the chicken pox and that it would take two or three months to recover. "I had to start from zero again physically because the virus left me at zero per cent. "When I started to come back I had my rib broken when I fell on court and that was another two months out. Those five months were pretty difficult for me." Among the low points of a difficult year for Ferrero was the decision of Spain captain Jordi Arrese to drop him for the Davis Cup final against the USA. "It was difficult because I had been playing well for the whole year and the coaches told me that I would play," said Ferrero. "But then I had some problems with my hand two days before the Friday matches so they decided to choose Nadal instead. "It was difficult for me not to be in the Friday matches but I had to understand. "Inside me I wanted to play but this was the decision of the captain and they had to make it."
Roddick into San Jose final Andy Roddick will play Cyril Saulnier in the final of the SAP Open in San Jose on Sunday. The American top seed and defending champion overcame Germany's Tommy Haas, the third seed, 7-6 (7-3) 6-3. And Saulnier survived an injury scare in his semi-final with seventh-seeded Austrian Jurgen Melzer. The Frenchman twisted his ankle early in the second set but overcame Melzer, who was left fuming over a series of line calls, 6-7 (3-7) 6-3 6-3. "I was feeling horrible earlier in the week," Roddick said. "I thought tonight was another step in the right direction. "On my returns, I was standing in more and I'm getting a little more depth, even if I don't hit a perfect return." Roddick won the last four points of the first-set tie-break before being broken at the start of the second set. But he broke straight back and then broke Haas again to lead 4-2. "It's extremely frustrating when you have chances against a top-five player and don't do anything with them," admitted Haas. "I rushed a few backhands and he took advantage." Saulnier will move into the world's top 50 for the first time after his passage through to the final. "It's taken a lot of work and a lot of fighting in my mind," he revealed. "Sometimes I didn't believe I could get to a final and now I am here. I've stayed mentally strong. "I'm on the way. I'll keep fighting and work a lot and I'll be up there."
Federer claims Dubai crown World number one Roger Federer added the Dubai Championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by Ivan Ljubicic. Top seed Federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set. But Ljubicic, who beat Tim Henman in the last eight, dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak. Swiss star Federer was not about to lose his cool, though, turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3. The match was a re-run of last week's final at the World Indoor Tournament in Rotterdam, where Federer triumphed, but not until Ljubicic had stretched him for five sets. "I really wanted to get off to a good start this time, and I did, and I could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm," Federer said. "That took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and I almost ran away with it. But he came back, and that was a good effort on his side." Ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set. "I didn't start badly, but then suddenly I felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much. And with Roger, if you relax for a second it just goes very quick," he said. "After those first three games it was no match at all. I don't know, it was really weird. I was playing really well the whole year, and then suddenly I found myself in trouble just to put the ball in the court." But despite his defeat, the world number 14 was pleased with his overall performance. "I had a chance in the third, and for me it's really positive to twice in two weeks have a chance against Roger to win the match. "It's an absolutely great boost to my confidence that I'm up there and belong with top-class players."
Young debut cut short by Ginepri Fifteen-year-old Donald Young's first appearance in an ATP tennis tournament proved brief as the teenager went out in round one of the San Jose Open. Young shot to the top of the junior world rankings when he won the boys' singles at January's Australian Open. But the wildcard entry was dispatched by fellow American Robby Ginepri in straight sets, 6-2 6-2, in California. Despite that he was happy with his Tour debut. "It was fun. I had my chances, but they didn't come through," he said. Young, who beat two players ranked in the top 200 when he was just 14, was only 2-1 down in the first set before losing 10 of the next 13 games. And Ginepri - six years older than the youngest player to ever win a junior slam and top the global standings - admitted he was impressed. "He's very talented," said Ginepri. "He's got a long future ahead of him. "Being left-handed, he was very quick around the court. "His serve is a little deceptive. He came into the net and volleyed better than I thought." Earlier, South Korean Hyung-Taik Lee defeated American Jan-Michael Gambill 6-3 7-6 (7-4). American Kevin Kim defeated Jan Hernych of the Czech Republic 7-5 6-3, Canadian qualifier Frank Dancevic downed American Jeff Morrison 4-6 7-6 (7-3) 6-0, and Denmark's Kenneth Carlsen beat Irakli Labadze of the Republic of Georgia 6-7 (4-7) 6-2 6-3. Top seed Andy Roddick launches his defence of the title on Wednesday against qualifier Paul Goldstein. Second seed Andre Agassi opens his campaign on Tuesday against wildcard Bobby Reynolds, last year's US collegiate champion. Agassi has won the San Jose five times, but his run of three straight titles ended last year when he fell to Mardy Fish in the semi-finals. Fish went on to lose to Roddick in the final.
Melzer shocks Agassi Second seed Andre Agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by Jurgen Melzer in the quarter-finals of the SAP Open. Agassi was often bamboozled by the Austrian's drop shots in San Jose, losing 6-3 6-1. Defending champion and top seed Andy Roddick rallied to beat Sweden's Thomas Enqvist 3-6 7-6 (8-6) 7-5. But unseeded Cyril Saulnier beat the fourth seed Vincent Spadea 6-2 6-4 and Tommy Haas overcame eighth seed Max Mirnyi 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-3) 6-2. Melzer has now beaten Agassi in two of their three meetings. "I had a good game plan and I executed it perfectly," he said. "It's always tough to come out to play Andre. "I didn't want him to play his game. He makes you run like a dog all over the court." And Agassi, who was more than matched for power by his opponent's two-handed backhand, said Melzer was an example of several players on the tour willing to take their chances against him. "A lot more guys are capable of it now," said the American. "He played much better than me. That's what he did both times. "I had opportunities to loosen myself up," Agassi added. "But I didn't convert on the big points."
Federer forced to dig deep Top seed Roger Federer had to save two match points before squeezing past Juan Carlos Ferrero at the Dubai Open. The world number one took two hours 15 minutes to earn his 4-6 6-3 7-6 victory, saving match points at 6-4 in the tiebreak before claiming it 8-6. Federer made a number of unforced errors early on, allowing Ferrero to take advantage and claim the first set. But the Swiss star hit back to reach the quarter-finals, where he will face seventh seed Russian Mikhail Youzhny. The Russian beat Germany's Rainer Schuettler 7-5 6-4. Federer was not unduly worried despite being taken to three sets for the third consecutive match. The world number one was forced to go the distance against Ivan Ljubicic in the Rotterdam final and against Ivo Minar in the first round in Dubai. "I definitely had a slow start again and to come back every time is quite an effort," he said. "I haven't been playing well, but I've been coming through. I'm winning the crucial points and that shows I'm on top of my game when I have to be."
Nadal marches on in Mexico Rafael Nadal continued his run of fine form to beat Guillermo Canas and reach the Mexican Open semis in Acapulco. Eighth seed Nadal, who picked up his second ATP title when he beat Alberto Martin in last week's Brazil Open, saw off the Argentine third seed 7-5 6-3. He now meets Argentine wild card Mariano Puerta, who followed up his win over top seed Carlos Moya by overcoming Spain's Felix Mantilla, 6-4 3-6 7-6. Czech fifth seed Czech Jiri Novak was eliminated 7-5 6-1 by Agustin Calleri. The unseeded Argentine, who won the tournament two years ago, now plays Spain's Albert Montanes. Montanes advanced to his first semi-final of the year with a 4-6 6-3 6-4 triumph over sixth-seeded Italian Filippo Volandri. Argentina's Agustin Calleri beat fourth seed Jiri Novak 7-5 6-1 in a battle of former champions at the Mexican Open. Calleri won his only ATP title in Acapulco two years ago while Novak won the singles and doubles titles in 1998. Calleri will face Albert Montanes in the semi-finals after the Spaniard ousted sixth seed Filippo Volandri of Italy 4-6 6-3 6-4. Argentine wild card Mariano Puerta continued his improbable run, outlasting Felix Mantilla 6-4 3-6 7-6.
Hantuchova in Dubai last eight Daniela Hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the Dubai Open, after beating Elene Likhotseva of Russia 7-5 6-4, and now faces Serena Williams. Australian Open champion Williams survived an early scare to beat Russia's Elena Bovina 1-6 6-1 6-4. World number one Lindsay Davenport and Anastasia Myskina also progressed. Davenport defeated China's Jie Zheng 6-2 7-5, while French Open champion Myskina sailed through after her opponent Marion Bartoli retired hurt. American Davenport will now face fellow former Wimbledon champion, Conchita Martinez of Spain, who ousted seventh-seeded Nathalie Dechy of France 6-1 6-2. Myskina will face eighth-seed Patty Schnyder from Switzerland, who defeated China's Li Na 6-3 7-6 (10-8). The other quarter final pits wild card Sania Mirza of India against Jelena Jankovic of Serbia and Montenegro, who both won on Tuesday. Before her meeting with Martinez, Davenport believes there is some room for improvement in her game. "I started well and finished well, but played some so-so games in the middle," she said. Williams was also far from content. "I don't know what I was doing there," she said. "It was really windy and I hadn't played in the wind. All my shots were going out of here." But Hantuchova is in upbeat mood ahead of her clash with the younger Williams sister, who was handed a first-round bye. "I feel I have an advantage (over Serena) because I have already played two matches on these courts," she said. "It is a difficult court to play on. Very fast and sometimes you feel you have no control over the ball."
Parmar ruled out of Davis Cup tie A knee injury has forced Arvind Parmar out of Great Britain's Davis Cup tie in Israel and left Alex Bogdanovic in line to take the second singles place. Parmar picked up the injury last week and has failed to recover in time for the Europe/Africa Zone I tie, which begins in Tel Aviv on Friday. Bogdanovic looks set to take the second singles place alongside Greg Rusedski. GB captain Jeremy Bates could use 17-year-old Andrew Murray and David Sherwood in the doubles rubber. Bogdanovic and Murray both pulled out of tournaments last week through injury but are expected to be fit. Jamie Delgado and Lee Childs have been called into the squad in Tel Aviv as designated hitters for team practice but Bates has no plans to call either of them into his squad at present. The unheralded Sherwood was the surprise inclusion when the squad was announced last week, and Bates said: "David has earned his place in this squad on the merit of his form and results over the last 12 months." The 6ft 4in Sherwood is ranked 264th in the world and the LTA have high hopes for him after Futures tournament wins in Wrexham and Edinburgh. The Sheffield-born right-hander, aged 24, also reached another final in Plaisir, France, a week after making the semi-final in Mulhouse. Bates is glad to have Rusedski available after Tim Henman's retirement from Davis Cup tennis. "His wealth of experience is invaluable, particularly to the younger players and I know he will lead by example," Bates said. "We are looking forward to the tie. The squad are all in excellent form."
Davenport hits out at Wimbledon World number one Lindsay Davenport has criticised Wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women. Reacting to a disputed comment by All England Club chairman Tim Phillips, the American said: "I think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away. "Somebody, I think it was Mr Phillips, said they won't have money for flowers at Wimbledon. That's insulting." An All England club spokesperson denied Phillips made the remark, insisting: "He definitely didn't say it." The statement added: "It was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the Wimbledon grounds." Davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week's Dubai Duty Free event will join the US and Australian Opens in offering equal prize money for women. "You hear about women playing only three sets while men play five," said Daveport. "And the best women are never going to beat the best men. "But it's a different game you go to watch with the women - it doesn't make it better or worse. "Hopefully we will be able to change people's minds." Serena Williams, who is also in Dubai, added: "I'm obviously for equal prize money. "Women's tennis is exciting. Men's tennis is exciting as well, but the women have it right now. "If you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap."
Dogged Federer claims Dubai crown World number one Roger Federer added the Dubai Championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by Ivan Ljubicic. Top seed Federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set. But Ljubicic, who beat Tim Henman in the last eight, dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak. Swiss star Federer was not about to lose his cool, though, turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3. The match was a re-run of last week's final at the World Indoor Tournament in Rotterdam, where Federer triumphed, but not until Ljubicic had stretched him all the way. "I really wanted to get off to a good start this time, and I did, and I could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm," Federer said. "That took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and I almost ran away with it. But he came back, and that was a good effort on his side." Ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set. "I didn't start badly, but then suddenly I felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much. And with Roger, if you relax for a second it just goes very quick," he said. "After those first three games it was no match at all. I don't know, it was really weird. I was playing really well the whole year, and then suddenly I found myself in trouble just to put the ball in the court." But despite his defeat, the world number 14 was pleased with his overall performance. "I had a chance in the third, and for me it's really positive to twice in two weeks have a chance against Roger to win the match. "It's an absolutely great boost to my confidence that I'm up there and belong with top-class players."
Henman hopes ended in Dubai Third seed Tim Henman slumped to a straight sets defeat in his rain-interrupted Dubai Open quarter-final against Ivan Ljubicic. The Croatian eighth seed booked his place in the last four with a 7-5 6-4 victory over the British number one. Henman had looked on course to level the match after going 2-0 up in the second set, but his progress was halted as the rain intervened again. Ljubicic hit back after the break to seal a fourth straight win over Henman. Earlier in the day, Spanish fifth seed Tommy Robredo secured his semi-final place when he beat Nicolas Kiefer of Germany 6-4 6-4. Afterwards, Henman was left cursing the weather and the umpire after seven breaks for rain during the match. "It was incredibly frustrating," Henman said. "It's raining and the umpire doesn't take control. "He kept telling us to play till the end of the game. But if it's raining, you come off - the score's irrelevant. "It couldn't be more frustrating as I was very happy with my form until now. You don't expect this in the desert."
Mirza shocks Kuznetsova Sania Mirza continued her remarkable rise with victory over US Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova at the Dubai Championships on Tuesday. The 18-year-old Indian, who is already a huge star in her home country, won 6-4 6-2 in front of a delirious crowd. It was Mirza's sixth straight victory following her first WTA tournament win in Hyderabad last month. Earlier, Daniela Hantuchova built on her improving form with a 7-6 6-2 win over sixth seed Alicia Molik. Mirza needed attention to an ankle injury after the second game against Kuznetsova. She quickly slipped 4-0 down but staged a dramatic comeback that thrilled the large Indian contingent in the crowd. "I really didn't expect that after my ankle turn," said Mirza. "I played a great match and I think (the crowd) did it again. I knew that I had to play an all-round game and that's what happened. "I did everything well but I wasn't missing the ball - I don't know how that happened." Mirza plays Silvia Farina Elia or Jelena Jankovic next. Hantuchova has risen from 31 in the world at the turn of the year to number 22, having reached the quarter-finals and semi-finals at her last two events. "It was such a tough first-round match and I am glad to come through," said Hantuchova. "She was serving so well. I just decided to hang in there and keep fighting." The Slovakian will meet Elena Likhovtseva in the second round after the Russian struggled past Tunisian wild card Selima Sfar 2-6 6-2 7-6. Likhovtseva needed nine match points before seeing off Sfar, who got a point penalty for swearing in the third set. Seventh seed Nathalie Dechy and Elena Bovina were among other first-round winners on Tuesday.
Hantuchova in Dubai last eight Daniela Hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the Dubai Open, after beating Elene Likhotseva of Russia 7-5 6-4, and now faces Serena Williams. Australian Open champion Williams survived an early scare to beat Russia's Elena Bovina 1-6 6-1 6-4. World number one Lindsay Davenport and Anastasia Myskina also progressed. Davenport defeated China's Jie Zheng 6-2 7-5, while French Open champion Myskina sailed through after her opponent Marion Bartoli retired hurt. American Davenport will now face fellow former Wimbledon champion, Conchita Martinez of Spain, who ousted seventh-seeded Nathalie Dechy of France 6-1 6-2. Myskina will face eighth-seed Patty Schnyder from Switzerland, who defeated China's Li Na 6-3 7-6 (10-8). The other quarter final pits wild card Sania Mirza of India against Jelena Jankovic of Serbia and Montenegro, who both won on Tuesday. Before her meeting with Martinez, Davenport believes there is some room for improvement in her game. "I started well and finished well, but played some so-so games in the middle," she said. Williams was also far from content. "I don't know what I was doing there," she said. "It was really windy and I hadn't played in the wind. All my shots were going out of here." But Hantuchova is in upbeat mood ahead of her clash with the younger Williams sister, who was handed a first-round bye. "I feel I have an advantage (over Serena) because I have already played two matches on these courts," she said. "It is a difficult court to play on. Very fast and sometimes you feel you have no control over the ball."
Murray to make Cup history Andrew Murray will become Britain's youngest-ever Davis Cup player after it was confirmed he will play in the doubles against Israel on Saturday. The 17-year-old will play alongside fellow debutant David Sherwood against Israel's Jonathan Erlich and Andy Ram. Murray will eclipse the record set by Roger Becker back in 1952. Greg Rusedski takes Tim Henman's place as first choice in the singles, while Alex Bogdanovic will play in the second singles clash. Rusedski will take on former world number 30 Harel Levy and Bogdanovic - who has previously played in two singles rubbers against Australia - will face Noam Okun. Murray is the brightest young hope in British tennis, after winning the US Open junior title last year and the BBC Young Sports Personality of the Year. British number one Tim Henman, who announced his Davis Cup retirement earlier this year, believes Britain can win the tie in Tel Aviv. "It's going to be as really tough match. Israel have some really good players - and their doubles pair of Andy Ram and Jonathan Erlich are among the top eight in the world - but I fancy our chances," he said. But Henman urged Bogdanovic, who has had run-ins with British tennis officials in the past, to seize his chance. "Alex is a quality player - he's young but he's got to keep pushing forward. "He's got to be stronger, he's got a lot of ability but he's got to be more disciplined mentally and physically and if he does that he's got a good chance."
Davenport hits out at Wimbledon World number one Lindsay Davenport has criticised Wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women. Reacting to a disputed comment by All England Club chairman Tim Phillips, the American said: "I think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away. "Somebody, I think it was Mr Phillips, said they won't have money for flowers at Wimbledon. That's insulting." An All England club spokesperson denied Phillips made the remark, insisting: "He definitely didn't say it." The statement added: "It was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the Wimbledon grounds." Davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week's Dubai Duty Free event will join the US and Australian Opens in offering equal prize money for women. "You hear about women playing only three sets while men play five," said Daveport. "And the best women are never going to beat the best men. "But it's a different game you go to watch with the women - it doesn't make it better or worse. "Hopefully we will be able to change people's minds." Serena Williams, who is also in Dubai, added: "I'm obviously for equal prize money. "Women's tennis is exciting. Men's tennis is exciting as well, but the women have it right now. "If you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap."
Venus stunned by Farina Elia Venus Williams suffered a first-round defeat for the first time in four years at the Dubai Championships. Sylvia Farina Elia, who had lost all nine of her previous meetings with the American fifth seed, won 7-5 7-6 (8-6). Former Wimbledon champion Conchita Martinez and India's Sania Mirza, the oldest and youngest players in the draw, also reached the second round. Martinez, 32, beat Shinobu Asagoe 6-4 6-4 and 18-year-old Mirza beat Jelena Kostanic 6-7 (7-2) 6-4 6-1. Mirza, the first Indian woman to win a WTA Tour title this month on home ground at Hyderabad, will now face US Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova. But she is remaining confident. "She (Kuznetsova) is a great player," she said. "But everyone is beatable and I am looking forward to a great match." Williams though blamed her defeat by Farina Elia on injuries. "Blisters were a factor, but mostly my stomach wasn't that great," she said. "I did it in the last tournament in the semi-finals, and I was serving at 40% in the final. "The first time I served again was Sunday and there wasn't a lot I could do out there. When your serve isn't good it throws the rest of your game off too." She will wait to see how she recovers before deciding whether to take part in the Nasdaq-100 Open in Miami, starting on 21 March.
Martinez sees off Vinci challenge Veteran Spaniard Conchita Martinez came from a set down to beat Italian Roberta Vinci at the Qatar Open in Doha. The 1994 Wimbledon champion won 5-7 6-0 6-2 to earn a second round meeting with French Open champion Anastasia Myskina. Fifth seed Patty Schnyder also had a battle as she needed three sets to beat China's Na Li 7-5 3-6 7-5. Slovakian Daniela Hantuchova beat Bulgarian Magdaleena Maleeva 4-6 6-4 6-3 to set up a second round clash with Russian Elena Bovina. The veteran Martinez found herself in trouble early on against Vinci with the Italian clinching the set thanks to breaks in the third and 11th games. But Vinci's game fell to pieces after that and Martinez swept her aside with some crisp cross-court returns and deft volleys. In the day's other matches, Japan's Ai Sugiyama defeated Australian Samantha Stosur 6-2 6-3 while Australian Nicole Pratt beat Tunisian Selima Sfar 7-5 6-2 and will next face compatriot Alicia Molik.
Serena becomes world number two Serena Williams has moved up five places to second in the world rankings after her Australian Open win. Williams won her first Grand Slam title since 2003 with victory over Lindsay Davenport, the world number one. Men's champion Marat Safin remains fourth in the ATP rankings while beaten finalist Lleyton Hewitt replaces Andy Roddick as world number two. Roger Federer retains top spot, but Safin has overtaken Hewitt to become the new leader of the Champions Race. Alicia Molik, who lost a three-set thriller against Davenport in the quarter-finals, is in the women's top 10 for the first time in her career. Her rise means Australia have a player in the top 10 of the men's and women's rankings for the first time in 21 years. And Britain's Elena Baltacha, who qualified and then reached the third round, has risen to 120 in the world - a leap of 65 places and her highest ranking yet.
Hingis to make unexpected return Martina Hingis makes her return to competitve tennis after two years out of the game at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand, on Tuesday. She faces German Marlene Weingartner in the first round. "As a competitor and athlete, I always want to win. I hope my body will hold up," said Hingis. "You miss being out there in a Grand Slam final and not competing. It's a big difference between playing and commenting for TV. I miss it a lot." The former world number one was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles, and her last WTA event was in Filderstadt, Germany, in October 2002, when she lost to Elena Dementieva. Only last year she insisted that a comeback was unlikely, but speaking in Thaliand Hingis admitted: "I said that because I didn't know what would happen with my body." Her appearance will also benefit charities in the region and the Swiss star will donate her prize money.
Clijsters set for February return Tennis star Kim Clijsters will make her return from a career-threatening injury at the Antwerp WTA event in February. "Kim had considered returning to action in Paris on 7 February," a statement on her website said. "She's decided against this so that she does not risk the final phase of her recovery. If all goes well, Kim will make her return on February 15." The 21-year-old has not played since last October after aggravating a wrist injury at the Belgian Open. Back then, a doctor treating the Belgian feared that her career may be over, with the player having already endured an operation earlier in the season to cure her wrist problem. "I hope she comes back, but I'm pessimistic," said Bruno Willems. Clijsters was also due to marry fellow tennis star Lleyton Hewitt in February but the pair split "for private reasons" back in October.
Hewitt falls to Dent Lleyton Hewitt suffered a shock defeat to Taylor Dent in the quarter-finals of the Australian Hardcourt Championships in Adelaide on Friday. The top seed was a strong favourite for the title but went down 7-6 (7-4) 6-3 to the American. Dent will face Juan Ignacio Chela next after the fourth seed was too strong for Jurgen Melzer. Olivier Rochus beat third seed Nicolas Kiefer 6-7 (4-7) 7-6 (8-6) 7-5 and will take on second seed Joachim Johansson. The Swede reached the last four by beating compatriot Thomas Enqvist 6-3 4-6 6-1. "I felt like I was striking the ball much better," said Johansson. "I felt like I had a lot of break chances, I didn't take care of them all, but I broke him four times and he only broke me once. "I felt that was the key to get up in the set early."
Angry Williams rejects criticism Serena Williams has angrily rejected claims that she and sister Venus are a declining force in tennis. The sisters ended last year without a Grand Slam title for the first time since 1998. But Serena denied their challenge was fading, saying: "That's not fair - I'm tired of not saying anything. "We've been practising hard. We've had serious injuries. I've had surgery and after, I got to the Wimbledon final. I don't know many who have done that." While Serena is through to the Australian Open semi-finals, Venus went out in the fourth round, meaning she has not gone further than the last eight in her last five Grand Slam appearances. But Serena added: "Venus had a severe strain in her stomach. I actually had the same injury, but I didn't tear it the way she did. "If I would have torn it, I wouldn't have been here. "She played a player (Alicia Molik) that just played out of her mind and Venus made some errors that she probably shouldn't have made." Serena also said people tended to forget the impact the 2003 murder of sister Yetunde Price had had on the family. "To top it off, we have a very, very, very, very, very close family" Serena continued. "To be in some situation that we've been placed in in the past little over a year, it's not easy to come out and just perform at your best when you realize there are so many things that are so important. "So, no, we're not declining. We're here. I don't have to win this tournament to prove anything. I know that I'm out here and I know that I'm one of the best players out here."
Davenport dismantles young rival Top seed Lindsay Davenport booked her place in the last 16 of the Australian Open with a convincing 6-2 6-4 win over Nicole Vaidisova of the Czech Republic. The American had too much power for her 15-year-old opponent, breaking twice in the first set and once in the second. The German-born Vaidisova rallied well at times but was unable to find a way back after falling behind 3-2 in the opening set. Davenport, who closed out with an ace, plays Karolina Sprem in the next round. "I was fully expecting a tough opponent and was able to play well enough to get through it," said Davenport. "I think she hits some great shots. She made some errors but probably some inexperience played a role in that. But she's so young and obviously has a big game and has many, many years to improve on that." Sprem, the Croatian 13th seed, saw off Russia's Elena Likhovtseva 6-3 6-2. Former world number one powered her way into the fourth round with a straight sets win over Anna Smashnova. The 27th seed from Israel stuck with Williams until 3-3 in the first set before it became one-way traffic. The American made 26 unforced errors but was still good enough to romp through the contest in exactly an hour. She reeled off nine straight games to finish a 6-3 6-0 winner. remains on course to become the first Australian to win her home title since Chris O'Neil in 1978. The 10th seed equalled her best performance at a Grand Slam event when she beat unseeded Russian Nadia Petrova 6-3 6-2 to reach the fourth round. After a tough first set, Molik grew in confidence and won in just 56 minutes. She will now meet Venus Williams. "Bring it on," said the 23-year-old. "I played pretty well and it was nice to get through in straight sets." "We were destined to meet, I guess," Williams said referring to her match with Molik. "It will be a huge match for her in Australia. I can tell she's probably very motivated by that so I need to get out there and play well." beat Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova in a rollercoaster match. Dementieva came through 7-5 5-7 6-4, becoming the seventh Russian woman to reach the last 16 in Melbourne. The match lasted almost three hours and featured 13 service breaks, including three in the final set when Dementieva held her nerve to seal the win. She now faces after the Swiss 12th seed beat American Abigail Spears 7-6 6-3. French Open champion received a free ride into the last 16 after Lisa Raymond was forced to withdraw. Raymond, the 25th seeded American, was ruled out after sustaining a left abdominal muscle tear in the doubles. Myskina, the third seed, now plays France's who beat Francesca Schiavone of Italy 6-3 6-3. "I'm extremely disappointed because I couldn't have asked to play better in my first two matches," Raymond said.
Serena ends Sania Mirza's dream Sania Mirza, the first Indian woman to reach the third round of a Grand Slam tennis event, has lost to women's favourite Serena Williams. The 18-year-old Mirza, who got a wild card entry into the Australian Open in Melbourne, lost to Williams 1-6,4-6 in the third round. Williams took just 56 minutes to defeat Mirza and sail into the fourth round. The only other Indian woman to win a match at a Grand Slam is Nirupama Vaidyanathan. Vaidyanathan made it to the second round of the Australian Open in 1998. Playing the biggest match of her life, Mirza made little impact on Williams in the early stages of the game. But the teenager showed more confidence in the second set and engaged the seventh-seeded Williams in some well contested rallies. Mirza, a junior Wimbledon doubles title winner, became the first Indian woman to reach the third round of a grand slam tennis event when she beat Hungarian Petra Mandula on Wednesday. "I'm really excited. I was confident but I didn't think it was going to be that easy," Mirza said after her second round win. "My aim was to win a round here. When I did that I was so relieved, there was no pressure." Tennis is not a particularly popular sport in India, but a number of Indians watched the live telecast of the match between Mirza and Williams. Mirza, who lives in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad known for producing a host of top Indian cricketers, turned professional two years ago. She says she was considered too small when she went for her first tennis classes as a six-year-old girl. "Then finally [the coach] called my parents up and said 'the way she hits the ball, I've never seen a six-year-old hit a ball like that'," Mirza told the Associated Press.
Kuznetsova 'failed a drugs test' US Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova has tested positive for a banned drug, according to Belgian authorities. Belgian sports minister Claude Eerdekens said that the Russian world number five tested positive for the stimulant ephedrine on 19 December. Kuznetsova was playing in an exhibition event in Charleroi at the time. Eerdekens said: "There is a problem. Ephedrine was discovered. She remains innocent until proved guilty. She can ask for it to be tested again." The situation remains unclear as the tournament was not commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada), the International Tennis Federation (ITF) or the Women's Tennis Accosiation (WTA). The test was carried out by regional Belgian authorities and Kuznetsova has not yet been able to have a B sample tested. Speaking at the Australian Open on Monday, before Eerdekens identified her, Kuznetsova said: "I'm not worried. I'm not using anything to push myself. "I have not been notified of any positive test, and I think it is unfair that it's come out the way it did." Eerdekens said that confirmation of the findings was sent last Friday to the player's address in Spain, as well as to the Belgian prosecutors' office and the Belgian and Russian tennis federations. He conceded Kuznetsova might have taken a medicine which contained the banned substance. "We have simply stated a fact," he said. "It is for the federation concerned to impose the disciplinary measures after a procedure that respects the defence. "Either the ephedrine was taken to improve her performance or it is because she took some medicine legitimately to cure an infection." However, Kuznetsova's naming was condemned by Russian tennis chief Shamil Tarpishchev. "First of all, this Belgian sports minister has broken every ethical rule in the book by naming a player without any proof of wrongdoing, without any basic evidence," Tarpishchev said. "We all know the basic principle in doping cases. If there is a positive sample, then they should notify the International Tennis Federation (ITF) as well as the national federation within three days," he said. "This is not the case here. As of today we have not received any statement from the doping officials, nor did the ITF. "Today I called the ITF headquarters and they told me they know nothing about it. "If WADA (the World Anti-Doping Agency) was behind the testing, then we would also have known something by now. "Otherwise, all these looks to me as pure fiction and fabrication of the facts."
What now for British tennis? Tim Henman's decision to quit Davis Cup tennis has left the British team with a gargantuan void to fill. The world number seven is tied for fourth among his countrymen for wins in the history of the tournament (he has 36 from his 50 rubbers). And Great Britain's last Davis Cup win without Henman came against Slovenia as far back as 1996. Worse could follow, according to former British team member Chris Bailey. Bailey told BBC Sport: "After Tim's announcement, I doubt Greg Rusedski will be that far behind him." But without their top two, where does that leave British ambitions in the sport's premier team event? Captain Jeremy Bates has singled out Alex Bogdanovic and Andrew Murray as potential replacements. The Yugoslavian-born Bogdanovic, though, is 184 places below Henman in the world rankings and has played just two cup ties - winning one and losing the other. Murray, on the other hand, is 407th in the current ATP entry list and yet to make his cup debut. But Bailey does see some hope for the future. He said: "Now we've dropped down to the Euro-Africa zone, the time was right for him to step down and let the young guys come to the fore." Britain's next opponents, Israel, are hardly likely to be quaking in their boots ahead of the 4-6 March match against a likely trio of Bogdanovic, Murray and the 187th-ranked Arvind Parmar. Bailey said: "It will be tough for GB to move up, but there comes a time when our young players have to step up. This was always going to be inevitable with Tim and Greg's growing years. "I'm confident about the future. I wouldn't lay money on us getting back into the world group next year, but I'd imagine in five years time we'll be competing for the major honours." Of those lining up to replace Henman, the 17-year-old Murray, with four Futures titles under his belt last year, looks the best long-term bet. "Murray is the one that looks likeliest to take over Tim's mantle," said Bailey. "He has an enormous amount of self-confidence, judging by what he's said in the past." Bogdanovic, three years Murray's senior, has had a more troubled time under Britain's Davis Cup umbrella. While Murray has been marked out as Britain's golden boy, Bogdanovic was warned by the Lawn Tennis Association for a lack of drive at the end of 2003. And Bailey said: "Despite that, Alex is clearly talented as well, while Arvind is another contender. "They're among the guys who have experienced the intensity of Davis Cup tennis - whether as players or on the sidelines. "The LTA has always done an exceptional job of ensuring that. "Now they'll finally get to play regularly in the cauldron of the cup. And I'm confident that will springboard Team GB to greater success."
Hewitt overcomes wobble in Sydney Lleyton Hewitt gave himself the perfect preparation for next week's Australian Open with victory over Ivo Minar in the final of the Sydney International. The defending champion brushed aside the Czech qualifier 7-5 6-0. The Australian world number three strolled to the first five games of the match but was shocked as Minar won the next five. The top seed was rattled but recovered to close out the set and raced to victory in exactly an hour. "It was a strange match . . . momentum swings," said Hewitt. "I felt like I came out of the blocks extremely well, but then he loosened up a bit. "When he got back to 5-5, I had to try to settle down and take it up a notch, and I was able to do that." Hewitt has now lifted the Sydney title four times in the last six years. "It just keeps getting better and better every year," Hewitt said. "I've only played this tournament four times and I've won it four times." Hewitt went into the final as a short-priced favourite to clinch his 24th career title after dropping only one set all week. He is set to meet Frenchman Arnaud Clement in the first round of the Australian Open. Minar, ranked 158th in the world, was forced to pull out of the Australian Open qualifying draw to play in his first ATP final. "For me, this was a big success," said the 20-year-old. "I was so nervous last night I couldn't sleep. I've never played a top-10 player before. "I wanted to play qualifying in Melbourne, but it's Saturday and I'm still here. But this is a main draw and I need the points and the money." Alicia Molik takes on Samantha Stosur in an all-Australian women's final later on Saturday.
Moya fights back for Indian title Carlos Moya became the first man to successfully defend the Chennai Open title by beating four-times finalist Paradorn Srichaphan 3-6 6-4 7-6 (7/5). The Spaniard then donated his £28,000 prize money to relief efforts for the victims of the Asian tsunami. The final was close throughout, with Thai second seed Srichaphan - the 2003 winner - closing out the first set. But Moya took the second set, before bouncing back from 5-2 down in the decider to force and win a tie-break. Moya confirmed afterwards: "I'm donating my prize money from this tournament for the tsunami victims, hoping it makes some difference to their lives. His contribution follows pledges by four other players to donate their prize money from the tournament, which went ahead after the 26 December disaster which has so far claimed at least 150,000 lives. Scrichapan said he would donate an unspecified amount for relief work in Thailand, where more than 5,000 people were killed. The ATP has announced that it would contribute the US$25,000 tournament fee to Unicef's emergency relief fund in Tamil Nadu. The ATP Tour's sponsor, Mercedes, said it would also contribute, increasing the ATP donation to US$40,000.
Rochus shocks Coria in Auckland Top seed Guillermo Coria went out of the Heineken Open in Auckland on Thursday with a surprise loss to Olivier Rochus of Belgium. Coria lost the semi-final 6-4 6-4 to Rochus, who goes on to face Czech Jan Hernych, a 6-4 7-5 winner over Jose Acasuso of Argentina. Fifth seed Fernando Gonzalez eased past American Robby Ginepri 6-3 6-4. The Chilean will meet sixth seed Juan Ignacio Chela next after the Argentine beat Potito Starace 6-1 7-6 (7-5). Rochus made the semi-finals at the Australian hardcourt championships in Adelaide last week and is naturally delighted with his form. "It's been two unbelievable weeks for me," he said. "Today I knew I had nothing to lose. If I beat him great, if I lost, I would be losing to a top-10 player." Coria conceded that Rochus "played just too good," and added: "When you give your best out there you can't be too sad."
Johansson takes Adelaide victory Second seed Joachim Johansson won his second career title with a 7-5 6-3 win over Taylor Dent at the Australian hardcourt championships in Adelaide. The Swede was made to graft, American Dent surviving three break points in the fifth game of the match. But Johansson got the breakthrough with a sublime backhand return winner and won the second set with more ease. His first tournament win was at Memphis in 2004, helping him leap from 113th in the world rankings to number 11. Afterwards, Dent said he rated US Open semi-finalist Johansson as a top contender at the Australian Open, which starts on 17 January. "I believe men's tennis is all about holding serve and if he's playing like that on his own serve I don't see how guys are going to break him," said Dent. Johansson was more restrained in his assessment: "I have to improve my serve if I'm going to go all the way in Melbourne."
Hingis hints at playing comeback Martina Hingis has admitted that she might consider a competitive return to tennis if an appearance in Thailand later this month goes well. The former world number one will play at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, which starts on 31 January, as part of her charity work in the region. "The tournament is a test," she said. "I don't know how my body will react. "I support several charities in Thailand. I'm also playing to see where I am." Speaking to Le Matin, the 24-year-old Swiss added: "At Pattaya there will not be as many people and the players are ranked between the 30th and 95th in the world." Hingis was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles, and her last WTA event was in Filderstadt, Germany, in October 2002, when she lost to Elena Dementieva.
Slovakia seal Hopman Cup success Slovakia clinched the Hopman Cup for the second time by beating Argentina 3-0 in Saturday's final in Perth. Daniela Hantuchova put the third seeds ahead, recovering from a terrible start to beat Gisela Dulko 1-6 6-4 6-4. Dominik Hrbaty, who had not lost a set in his three singles matches in the group stages, then upset world number seven Guillermo Coria 6-4 6-1. Hantuchova and Hrbaty then won the mixed doubles after Coria was forced to withdraw because of a sore back. Slovakia's win made up for last year's final defeat to the United States. "I would like to congratulate Daniela," Hrbaty said. "I was so nervous watching her today, I almost had a heart attack. "I also feel a little sorry for Guillermo because I get very excited whenever I play for my country. I show lots of emotions and played such good tennis." World number 31 Hantuchova, ranked two places above Dulko, looked nervous as she dropped the first four games of the match. Dulko, who had lost all three of her singles matches in the group stages, grew in confidence and took the opening set in just 27 minutes. But Hantuchova hit back to take the next two and the match. "I was so nervous because I really wanted to win for the team and for Dominik as he played so well all week," she said. "I didn't think I was playing my best but I just tried to hang in there and fight hard for every point for my country." Slovakia won the Cup on their first appearance in 1998 when Karol Kucera and Karina Habsudova beat France.
Dementieva prevails in Hong Kong Elena Dementieva swept aside defending champion Venus Williams 6-3 6-2 to win Hong Kong's Champions Challenge event. The Russian, ranked sixth in the world, broke Williams three times in the first set, while losing her service once. Williams saved three championship points before losing the match at the Victoria Park tennis court. "It's really a great start to the year no matter whether it's an exhibition or not. I was trying to play my best and I really did it," said Dementieva. "This will give me all the confidence before the Grand Slams. I was trying so hard to win this tournament." Williams, 24, was disappointed with her display. "She played some nice points, but it was mostly me committing unforced errors - four or five errors in each game," she said. Before the match, organizers auctioned off rackets belonging to the players, raising £115,000 for victims of the tsunami disaster.
Injury sidelines Philippoussis Mark Philippoussis withdrew from the Sydney International tennis tournament as expected on Sunday after suffering a groin injury during the Hopman Cup. His participation in the Australian Open, which begins on 17 January in Melbourne, also remains in doubt. Defending women's champion Justine Henin-Hardenne is also out of the Sydney event because of a knee injury. In the only main draw men's or women's singles match on Sunday, Nathalie Dechy beat American Lisa Raymond 7-5 6-3. Number one men's seed Lleyton Hewitt begins his quest for a fourth Sydney title on Tuesday when he plays Karol Beck. Lindsay Davenport, top seed in the women's draw, has been handed a first-round bye and plays France's Dechy in the second round on Tuesday.
Hewitt falls to Dent in Adelaide Lleyton Hewitt suffered a shock defeat to Taylor Dent in the quarter-finals of the Australian Hardcourt Championships in Adelaide on Friday. The top seed was a strong favourite for the title but went down 7-6 (7-4) 6-3 to the American. Dent will face Juan Ignacio Chela next after the fourth seed was too strong for Jurgen Melzer. Olivier Rochus beat third seed Nicolas Kiefer 6-7 (4-7) 7-6 (8-6) 7-5 and will take on second seed Joachim Johansson. The Swede reached the last four by beating compatriot Thomas Enqvist 6-3 4-6 6-1. "I felt like I was striking the ball much better," said Johansson. "I felt like I had a lot of break chances, I didn't take care of them all, but I broke him four times and he only broke me once. "I felt that was the key to get up in the set early." Hewitt played down his defeat and insisted he is focused solely on the Australian Open, which starts on 17 January. "When you've been number one in the world for a couple of years and won a couple of slams, you look at the big picture and what motivates you," said Hewitt. "That's the Grand Slams and Melbourne's as big for me as any of the four. Even if I don't win Sydney next week it's no big deal."
Federer breezes into semi-finals Roger Federer reached the last four of the Qatar Open with an easy 6-1 6-2 win over seventh seed Feliciano Lopez. The Swiss world number one reeled off a series winners to outclass the Spaniard and set up a semi-final match against Russian Nikolay Davydenko. Federer, who lost in the quarter-final in his last Qatar appearance in 2003, was happy with his form. "I think I played better than against Greg Rusedski and I am happy I am playing so well," said the top seed. Lopez showed glimpses of resolve early in the second set when he held his first service game and came close to breaking Federer. But the Swiss saved a break point and promptly broke serve in the following game to seize control. Davydenko, meanwhile, upset French third seed Sebastien Grosjean 2-6 6-3 6-2. Fabrice Santoro completed a miserable day for France when he was forced to retire when 6-2 3-0 down to Albert Costa. Spaniard Costa will next face Croatian Ivan Ljubicic after the sixth seed beat Rafael Nadal 6-2 6-7 (3/7) 6-3.
Davenport puts retirement on hold Lindsay Davenport has put any talk of retirement on hold after having a largely injury-free 2004 campaign. The 28-year-old world number one had said that she would quit at the end of last year, but after a successful season she has had a change of heart. "Finally I felt I put myself in a position to try and win Grand Slams again," said Davenport. "It would be tough to walk away when I feel like I can contend so there's no point in hanging it up quite yet." Davenport has won three Grand Slams, the 2000 Australian Open, Wimbledon in 1999 and the 1998 US Open. Her career has been hit by a series of injuries but last year she started hitting top form and won seven titles. She was due to take part in this week's Hopman Cup in Perth but decided she wanted to rest her knee. "I just really wanted to make sure my right knee was going to be able to really withstand all the rigours of the whole year coming up," she said.
Rusedski angry over supplements Greg Rusedski has criticised the governing body of men's tennis for not releasing contamination-free supplements in time for the new season. Rusedski said: "I tried to order some but didn't receive any and I haven't got any yet. "You would think they would have been available in December as it can take two months for the body to respond. "This event comes in the hottest period of the year, so you would hope the stuff would be available for it." The British number two escaped a possible ban last year when he persuaded a tribunal that a positive doping test was the result of contaminated ATP supplements. In response, the ATP struck a deal with pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline to provide contamination-free drinks and nutritional bars for the men's tour. David Higdon, Vice President of the ATP, admitted: "I agree with Greg. "I would have loved to have had these things available as soon as possible but it's a lot of work to make sure they have gone through rigorous testing. "The reality is though that the first two weeks of the tour are spread far and wide and part of the distribution agreement we had with GSK has an education component. "We weren't going to just drop these products out there without having a talk with the players about understanding how to use them. "The first chance we will get to do that is at the players meeting on the Saturday before the Australian Open." And Rusedski, who takes on Roger Federer at the Qatar Open later on Wednesday, conceded that the imminent changes will be beneficial. "The good thing is that there is now a 100% guarantee, so hopefully all this will never happen again," said Rusedski. "Hopefully after the Australian Open we won't have to discuss this any more."
Navratilova hits out at critics Martina Navratilova has defended her decision to prolong her tennis career at the age of 48. Navratilova, who made a comeback after retiring in 1994, will play doubles and mixed doubles events in 2005. "Women's tennis is really strong," she said, dismissing suggestions that the fact she could still win reflected badly on the women's game. "All I can say is I'm that damn good. I'm sorry but I really have to blow my own horn here. I'm still that good." Navratilova has won three Grand Slam mixed doubles titles since she came out of retirement. And she was so encouraged by her form that she decided to resume playing singles, winning two of her seven matches. She was knocked out in the first round of the French Open but reached the second round at Wimbledon. Navratilova will partner Nathalie Dechy in the doubles event at the Uncle Toby's Hardcourts tournament on Australia's Gold Coast, which begins on Sunday. She will then link up with Daniela Hantuchova for the Australian Open doubles, and play in the mixed doubles with Leander Paes. "I might be playing some singles events this season, depending on the surface," she added.
Prodigy Monfils blows away Gaudio French prodigy Gael Monfils underlined his huge promise by beating French Open champion Gaston Gaudio 6-4 7-6 (7-4) in the first round of the Qatar Open. The 18-year-old wild card won three of the four junior Grand Slam events last year, including Wimbledon. Fabrice Santoro, the 2000 champion, beat Sweden's Thomas Johansson 6-4 6-2 but fourth seed Mikhail Youzhny lost 6-3 7-6 (7-3) to Rafael Nadal. Roger Federer plays Greg Rusedski in the second round on Wednesday. Monfils, who was given a wildcard into the tournament, said: "This is my first win over a top 10 player and I am delighted. "I play my best tennis when I am fired up on the court and the reason I won today was because I was able to play my natural, attacking game," he said. "Of course I was a bit tired in the second set. But I was confident I could survive had there been a third set."
Connors boost for British tennis Former world number one Jimmy Connors is planning a long-term relationship with the Lawn Tennis Association to help unearth the next Tim Henman. The American spent three days at the LTA's annual Elite Performance winter camp in La Manga earlier this week. "Britain has the right attitude," said Connors. "The more involved I can be with the LTA, the better. "A short-term arrangement is just confusing. The kids will ask: 'What am I doing there?'" LTA chief executive, John Crowther, added: "The relationship that Jimmy's already started to develop with the coaches and the players has said to us that we'd like some more of it. "We want to use Jimmy for a number of weeks a year and we hope this is the beginning of a good long-term relationship." The camp played host to more than 30 leading senior and junior players, including Greg Rusedski, Arvind Parmar and Anne Keothavong. "La Manga is an amazing site to take a bunch of kids who want to be the best," said Connors, speaking at Queen's Club in London. "What impressed me most was not only the coaches but the way the kids went about their workouts and the feeling they put into every practice they had. "It was interesting to me to see kids of 15, 16, 17, with that desire and passion, and that can only be brought about by the coaches surrounding them. "Instilling the importance of work and practice is something you can't buy. "They know what's been given to them and all they have to do is give back the effort, and every minute of practice they were doing that." Speaking from La Manga, LTA performance director David Felgate told BBC Sport: "Jimmy was fantastic with the players and the coaches, and very humble considering what he's achieved. "He worked through the coaches and hopefully it will grow and he'll get to have more of an individual relationship with some of the players and get to know them. "He made it clear from the word go he didn't want it to be short-term. This is a 52-week-a-year job for me, it's my life and my passion and it's the same with the coaches. "He respects that but he wants to be involved and have real input. And why would he stake his reputation on something that's not going to be successful?" Connors has also agreed to commentate for the BBC at next year's Wimbledon Championships. He will work during the second week of the tournament.
Henin-Hardenne beaten on comeback Justine Henin-Hardenne lost to Elena Dementieva in a comeback exhibition match in Belgium on Sunday for her second defeat in two days. And the Belgian, who has slipped to eight in the world after struggling with a virus, faces a tough Australian Open title defence next month. "I will be heading to Australia with a lot of question marks over me, I know that," she said. "But I think there'll be less pressure than last time even if I am champion." Henin-Hardenne was speaking after a 6-2 5-7 6-2 loss to world number six Dementieva in Charleroi, Belgium, on Sunday. The previous day, the Olympic champion went down 6-2 7-5 to France's Nathalie Dechy. "I have to be positive, I still have a few weeks," she said. "My body has to get accustomed again to the stress, the rhythm." Henin-Hardenne slid down the world rankings in the second half of 2004 after contracting the illness in April. After an initial lay-off, she was forced off the circuit for a second time after being knocked out of the French Open in the second round. A comeback at the US Open after a three-month absence ended when she crashed out at the fourth-round stage. But despite her problems, she still won five of the nine official tournaments she entered in 2004 and won Olympic gold in Athens, an achievement which saw her named Belgian sportswoman of the year on Friday. "Physically, it's obvious that I hit rock bottom," said the 22-year-old, who will make her comeback in the Sydney International from 10-16 January. "Since April, with the exception of the Olympics, I have not done much. "All the successes I had prior to that were mainly due to the work I put in on building up my fitness. "Now it's time to get back to putting in 200% effort and I think I am capable of doing that."
Moya clinches Cup for Spain Spain won the Davis Cup for the second time in their history when Carlos Moya beat the USA's Andy Roddick in the fourth rubber in Seville. Moya won 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead with only one singles rubber remaining. Roddick battled hard and had chances in the second set, but Moya's clay-court expertise proved the difference. Mardy Fish beat Tommy Robredo 7-6 (8-6) 6-2 in the final dead rubber to cut Spain's winning margin to 3-2. Spain's only other Davis Cup title came in 2000, when they beat Australia in Barcelona. This time they chose to play the final in Seville and the city's Olympic Stadium was revamped to allow for a record crowd for a competitve tennis event of 27,000 spectators. And the home fans gave vociferous support to their players, with 18-year-old Nadal and Moya winning both Friday's singles rubbers. American twins Mike and Bob Bryan gave the visitors hope with victory over Juan Carlos Ferrero and Tommy Robredo in Saturday's doubles. But it remained an uphill task for a US team far happier on hard courts than clay, and 1998 French Open champion Moya had too much for world number two Roddick. "This has been incredible - the moment I've been waiting for for years," said Moya, who missed out in 2000 through injury. "I've prepared myself for this day. I knew that playing on clay I would have my chances to win. "The Davis Cup is my dream. I can't ask for more. There is nothing bigger than what I've lived today." Moya stormed into a 4-0 lead on his way to taking the first set against Roddick and recovered immediately from dropping serve in the second. The match came down to two tie-breaks and Moya dominated both, clinching victory on his third match point. Wild celebrations followed, with an emotional Moya congratulated by his team-mates, including Nadal, who at 18 years and 187 days becomes the youngest ever victor in Davis Cup history. "I think we put up a better fight here than in Paris two years ago," said Roddick, who was on the US team which lost to France in the 2002 semi-finals at Roland Garros. "They were just better than us this weekend. I have nothing to be ashamed of, I gave it my all. "I am not going to walk out of here with my head down, that's for sure. "There's no miracle answer. We have to improve."
Capriati to miss Melbourne Jennifer Capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the Australian Open because of injury. The organisers of the first grand slam of 2005, which begins on 17 January, said the American has a problem with her right shoulder. It comes as a blow to the women's draw as last year's champion, Justin Henin-Hardenne, and runner-up, Kim Clijsters, will also be absent. Capriati is a two-time champion in Melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002. She is believed to have picked up the injury at the Advanta Championships at Philadelphia in November and had to pull out of an exhibition match with Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova on 17 December. Capriati also decided against competing in the Australian Open warm-up event, the Sydney International.
Classy Henman makes winning start Tim Henman opened his 2005 campaign with a 6-1 7-5 victory over Argentine David Nalbandian at the Kooyong Classic exhibition tournament on Wednesday. The British number one will next play Roger Federer at the Australian Open warm-up event on Friday. The world number one beat Gaston Gaudio 5-7 6-1 6-4, before Andre Agassi saw off Chilean Olympic gold medalist Nicolas Massu 6-1 7-6 (7-4). Andy Roddick beat Ivan Ljubicic, who replaced Paradorn Srichaphan, 6-1 6-4. Henman made an impressive start to the year, only faltering against Nalbandian when serving for the match at 5-4. But the Briton regained his composure to win the next two games for only his second win in six matches against the Argentine. "It's a great start to the year - just what I was looking for," Henman told his website. "Over the years I've found David very difficult to play against. "He returns serve very well and he's deceptively effective from the baseline, so sometimes it can be difficult to execute my gameplan well enough against him to get the right result. "Beating somebody of his stature is always good for the confidence and it bodes well at the beginning of the year." Henman also revealed the extent of the back problems he suffered in the off-season. "I'm not the most flexible and at the end of the year I was pretty exhausted and wanted to have a couple of weeks where I didn't do anything," said Henman. "When I started training again it really, really seized up. As much as I enjoyed the two weeks off I don't think it's so productive." Federer dropped a tight first set against 2004 French Open champion Gaudio, but was content with his game. "It was about getting used to the surface," he said. "The conditions are much quicker than Doha, my timing was OK, but I could have served better. "All in all I'm happy with the match, and I won it - that's a good sign. Now I have a day off and hopefully play better the next match." Agassi was delighted with victory over Massu in his first match for over two months. "I felt pretty good," said the American. "I liked the way the match played out and, maybe excluding a few second serve returns, I felt like I was doing most things pretty darn well for the first match."
Moya emotional after Davis Cup win Carlos Moya described Spain's Davis Cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat Andy Roddick to end the USA's challenge in Seville. Moya made up for missing Spain's 2000 victory through injury by beating Roddick 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead. "I have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day," said Moya. "All my energy has been focused on today. "What I have lived today I do not think I will live again." Spain's only other Davis Cup title came two years ago in Valencia, when they beat Australia. And Moya, nicknamed Charly, admitted: "The Davis Cup is my dream and I was a bit nervous at the outset. "Some people have said that I am obsessed but I think that it is better this way. It helps me reach my goals if I am obsessed. "It's really incredible - to get the winning point is really something." Spanish captain Jordi Arrese said: "Charly played a great game. It was his opportunity and he hasn't let us down. "He had lost three times to Roddick, and this was his day to beat him. "He had been waiting years to be in this position." Spain's victory was also remarkable for the performance of Rafael Nadal, who beat Roddick in the opening singles. Aged 18 years and 185 days, the Mallorcan became the youngest player to win the Davis Cup. "What a great way to finish the year," said Nadal afterwards. US coach Patrick McEnroe wants Roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface. "I think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better." "Obviously it's unrealistic to say that we're going to just start playing constantly on clay, with the schedule. "But certainly I think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff," said McEnroe. Roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of Seville's Olympic Stadium. "It's just tough because I felt like I was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world," said the American. "I had my chances and just didn't convert them. The bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend. "They came out, took care of business and they beat us. It's as simple as that."
Moya emotional at Davis Cup win Carlos Moya described Spain's Davis Cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat Andy Roddick to end the USA's challenge in Seville. Moya made up for missing Spain's 2000 victory through injury by beating Roddick 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead. "I have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day," said Moya. "All my energy has been focused on today. "What I have lived today I do not think I will live again." Spain's only other Davis Cup title came two years ago in Valencia, when they beat Australia. And Moya, nicknamed Charly, admitted: "The Davis Cup is my dream and I was a bit nervous at the outset. "Some people have said that I am obsessed but I think that it is better this way. It helps me reach my goals if I am obsessed. "It's really incredible - to get the winning point is really something." Spanish captain Jordi Arrese said: "Charly played a great game. It was his opportunity and he hasn't let us down. "He had lost three times to Roddick, and this was his day to beat him. "He had been waiting years to be in this position." Spain's victory was also remarkable for the performance of Rafael Nadal, who beat Roddick in the opening singles. Aged 18 years and 185 days, the Mallorcan became the youngest player to win the Davis Cup. "What a great way to finish the year," said Nadal afterwards. US coach Patrick McEnroe wants Roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface. "I think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better." "Obviously it's unrealistic to say that we're going to just start playing constantly on clay, with the schedule. "But certainly I think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff," said McEnroe. Roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of Seville's Olympic Stadium. "It's just tough because I felt like I was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world," said the American. "I had my chances and just didn't convert them. The bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend. "They came out, took care of business and they beat us. It's as simple as that."
Capriati out of Australian Open Jennifer Capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the Australian Open because of injury. The organisers of the first grand slam of 2005, which begins on 17 January, said the American has a problem with her right shoulder. It comes as a blow to the women's draw as last year's champion, Justin Henin-Hardenne, and runner-up, Kim Clijsters, will also be absent. Capriati is a two-time champion in Melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002. She is believed to have picked up the injury at the Advanta Championships at Philadelphia in November and had to pull out of an exhibition match with Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova on 17 December. Capriati also decided against competing in the Australian Open warm-up event, the Sydney International.
Bryan twins keep US hopes alive The United States kept the Davis Cup final alive with victory in Saturday's doubles rubber, leaving Spain 2-1 ahead going into the final day. Masters Cup champions Mike and Bob Bryan thrashed Juan Carlos Ferrero and Tommy Robredo 6-0 6-3 6-2 in front of a partisan crowd in Seville. Victory would have given Spain the title but they were outclassed. In Sunday's reverse singles, Carlos Moya takes on Andy Roddick before Rafael Nadal faces Mardy Fish. "It feels good, but it's not going to be as good if we don't win two tomorrow," said Mike Bryan. "It feels good to give those guys another shot, and Spain has to go to sleep on that." Bob Bryan added: "I'm really confident in Andy winning that first match, and then anything can happen." Spain coach Jordi Arrese chose to rest 18-year-old Nadal in the doubles after his epic singles win over Roddick on Friday. He was replaced by former world number one Ferrero, but the Spanish pair were out of their depth against one of the world's best doubles teams. The 26-year-old Bryan twins have won all four of their Davis Cup matches this year. And they quickly silenced the huge crowd at the Olympic Stadium, racing through the opening set to love. The Spaniards then twice surrendered breaks of serve at the start of the second before the Bryans broke to go 5-3 ahead and served out. When Robredo dropped serve in the opening game of the third set the match was all but over, and the unflappable Bryan brothers powered on to an impressive win. Ferrero, who was upset to be dropped for Friday's singles, hinted at further dissatisfaction after the defeat. "It was a difficult game against the best doubles players," he said. "They have everything calculated and we had very little to do. "I was a bit surprised that I was named to play the doubles match because I hardly play doubles." Arrese said: "Juan Carlos hasn't played at all badly. He played the right way but the Bryans are great doubles players."
Faultless Federer has no equal Roger Federer - nice bloke, fantastic tennis player - the ultimate sportsman. When Lleyton Hewitt shook his hand after getting another thrashing, a third in as many months, the Australian said; "You're the best." How right he is. The stats speak for themselves: 11 titles from 11 finals during 2004 - three of them Grand Slams - and 13 final victories in a row going back to Vienna 2003. That's an open-era record. Hewitt, at times in Houston, showed form which easily matched his Grand Slam-winning efforts of 2001 and 2002. But he was outplayed. Twice. Hewitt, along with Andy Roddick and Marat Safin, is sure to be prominent during 2005. But realistically, all three will be fighting for the world number two ranking. According to all those players and even Federer himself, the Swiss star is in a different league. "Right now I feel that a little bit," he told BBC Sport. "I've dominated all the top ten players. They say nice things about me because I have beaten them all. I am dominating the game right now and I hope it continues!" The number one player in the world is also the main man for promoting the sport off court. He has just been voted, by the International Tennis Writers, as the best "Ambassador for Tennis" on the ATP Tour. He has time for everyone. Every match, from first round to final, is followed by a series of press interviews in three languages; English, French and Swiss-German. After a major win, there are extra requests, obligations and interviews, all seen through to the end with courtesy and, most importantly, good humour. "You guys are funny, I have a good time with you guys," he said, genuinely happy to talk into yet another tape recorder. "I see you pretty much every day on the tour so to give away an hour for interviews is really no problem for me. "If I can promote tennis and the sport then that is good for me. People say thanks back and that is nice." What a refreshing attitude from someone who could easily dominate the sports pages for a decade. It sums up his modest personality. Shortly after collecting a Waterford Crystal trophy, a Mercedes convertible and a tasty cheque for $1.5m, Federer addressed the Houston crowd and concluded by saying "thanks for having me". Now he just needs to find a way of winning the French Open, the one Grand Slam to so far elude him.
Mauresmo opens with victory in LA Amelie Mauresmo and Maria Sharapova won their opening matches at the Tour Championships in Los Angeles. France's Mauresmo routed Vera Zvonareva 6-1 6-0, while Wimbledon champion Sharapova was a 6-1 6-4 winner over fellow Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova. American Serena Williams also won, edging Russian Elena Dementieva 7-6 7-5 for her second victory of the event. The event is split into two groups of four with the top two from each advancing to the semi-finals. Mauresmo's win was her ninth in a row as she tries to overtake Lindsay Davenport for the number one spot. Mauresmo spent five weeks at number one after the US Open before injury ushered Davenport back in front. "Since then, I feel very confident on court and my game is there. I want to get the ranking back, but it's very different than before I was number one. "It was an obsession, but now I take it in a relaxed way." Mauresmo completed her first match in the season-ending championship in 54 minutes as Russia's Zvonareva struggled to return her serve and failed to achieve a single break point. "She got mad a little bit and I played some great tennis," said Mauresmo, who was runner-up to Kim Clijsters in last year's final. Zvonareva has lost both her games so far, having crashed 6-2 6-4 Kuznetsova in the Staples Centre on Wednesday. "Sometimes not everything works," she said. "It was lots of pressure. Maybe that is why I couldn't do 100%. But I was fighting." Sharapova, who lost 6-2 6-2 to Kuznetsova in Beijing in September, said: "In Beijing, she was coming off such a big winning streak [14 matches] and she was unstoppable. "This time, it was important to start off well and put some pressure on her." The tournament debutant added: "I love it here. The atmosphere is great. "To be here where the Lakers play, you just feel that excitement. I love basketball." Williams admitted she is still some way off her best form but remained positive after two wins in two days. "It's hard to go out there and get it right but I'm fighting and I'm hoping," said Williams. "What makes me happy is the effort. I had a really good effort today. "I'm trying to add new dimensions to my game."
Agassi fear for Melbourne Andre Agassi's involvement in the Australian Open was put in doubt after he pulled out of the Kooyong Classic with a hip injury. Agassi was serving at 5-6 down in the first set to fellow American Andy Roddick when he decided to bring a premature end to the match. "My hip was cramping and I just could not continue," said the 34-year-old. Agassi, who has won the Australian Open four times, will have an MRI scan to discover the extent of the damage. He said the problem was not the same as the hip injury which forced him to miss Wimbledon last year. "The good news is that it didn't just tear, it was tightening up and that can be your body protecting itself, which is hopefully more of the issue," he added. "That wasn't comfortable out there at all, what I was feeling. "I have to wait and see what I'm dealing with - it's a pretty scary feeling out there when something doesn't feel right and is getting worse. "It's very disappointing and I'll have to do my best to deal with it. Time will shortly tell if it (the Australian Open) is a possibility or not. "I was not counting on this being the end of the day for me. "Maybe in a few days I'll have a much better sense of what my hopes will be."
Henman to face Saulnier test British number one Tim Henman will face France's Cyril Saulnier in the first round of next week's Australian Open. Greg Rusedski, the British number two, is in the same quarter of the draw and could face Andy Roddick in the second round if he beats Swede Jonas Bjorkman. Local favourite Lleyton Hewitt will meet France's Arnaud Clement, while defending champion and world number one Roger Federer faces Fabrice Santoro. Women's top seed Lindsay Davenport drew Spanish veteran Conchita Martinez. Henman came from two sets down to defeat Saulnier in the first round of the French Open last year, so he knows he faces a tough test in Melbourne. The seventh seed, who has never gone beyond the quarter-finals in the year's first major and is lined up to meet Roddick in the last eight, is looking forward to the match. "He's tough player on any surface, he's got a lot of ability," he said. "We had a really tight one in Paris that went my way so I'm going to need to play well from the outset because he's a dangerous competitor." Switzerland's Federer, seeded one, is the hot favourite having won three of the four grand slam titles in 2004. He has beaten Santoro in five of their seven previous encounters, but is taking nothing for granted. "It's a tricky match," Federer said. "I played him at the US Open and won quite comfortably then. But you never know, if the rhythm is a bit off, he can keep you guessing and make it difficult. "The most important thing, though, is to get used to playing five-set matches and winning them." The 23-year-old could meet four-time champion Andre Agassi in the quarter-finals before meeting Russian Marat Safin, the player he beat in last year's final. Eighth-seeded American Agassi is set to play a qualifier in round one if he can shake off a hip injury which ruled him out of the Kooyong Classic. Second seed Andy Roddick will open his campaign against Irakli Labadze of Georgia. The American could meet Rusedski in the second round, seventh seed Henman in the quarter-finals and Hewitt in the last four. Hewitt is hoping to become the first Australian man to win the event since Mark Edmondson in 1976. The 23-year-old has never been beyond round four in eight attempts at Melbourne Park but has at least secured the opposite half of the draw to Federer, who beat him in the Australian Open, Wimbledon and US Open last year. Safin, seeded four, opens his campaign against a qualifier with 16th seed Tommy Haas, the player he beat in the semi-finals in 2002, a possible fourth-round opponent. In the women's draw, Davenport could encounter eighth-seeded Venus Williams in the quarter-finals and third-ranked Anastasia Myskina, the French Open champion, in the semi-finals. Bronchitis ruled Davenport, the 2000 Australian Open champion, out of her Sydney quarter-final on Thursday. Venus Williams, who lost to younger sister Serena in the Melbourne final two years ago, opens against Eleni Daniilidou of Greece. Serena Williams, who won her fourth consecutive grand slam at the 2003 Australian Open, was drawn in the bottom quarter with second seed Amelie Mauresmo, a runner-up in 1999. Serena will open against another Frenchwoman Camille Pin, while Mauresmo plays Australia's Samantha Stosur. Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova, seeded fourth, drew a qualifier in the first round but could meet fellow Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova, the US Open winner, in the last eight 1 Roger Federer (Switzerland) 2 Andy Roddick (US) 3 Lleyton Hewitt (Australia) 4 Marat Safin (Russia) 5 Carlos Moya (Spain) 6 Guillermo Coria (Argentina) 7 Tim Henman (Britain) 8 Andre Agassi (US) 9 David Nalbandian (Argentina) 10 Gaston Gaudio (Argentina) 11 Joachim Johansson (Sweden) 12 Guillermo Canas (Argentina) 13 Tommy Robredo (Spain) 14 Sebastien Grosjean (France) 15 Mikhail Youzhny (Russia) 16 Tommy Haas (Germany) 17 Andrei Pavel (Romania) 18 Nicolas Massu (Chile) 19 Vincent Spadea (US) 20 Dominik Hrbaty (Slovakia) 21 Nicolas Kiefer (Germany) 22 Ivan Ljubicic (Croatia) 23 Fernando Gonzalez (Chile) 24 Feliciano Lopez (Spain) 25 Juan Ignacio Chela (Argentina) 26 Nikolay Davydenko (Russia) 27 Paradorn Srichaphan (Thailand) 28 Mario Ancic (Croatia) 29 Taylor Dent (US) 30 Thomas Johansson (Sweden) 31 Juan Carlos Ferrero (Spain) 32 Jurgen Melzer (Austria) 1 Lindsay Davenport (US) 2 Amelie Mauresmo (France) 3 Anastasia Myskina (Russia) 4 Maria Sharapova (Russia) 5 Svetlana Kuznetsova (Russia) 6 Elena Dementieva (Russia) 7 Serena Williams (US) 8 Venus Williams (US) 9 Vera Zvonareva (Russia) 10 Alicia Molik (Australia) 11 Nadia Petrova (Russia) 12 Patty Schnyder (Switzerland) 13 Karolina Sprem (Croatia) 14 Francesca Schiavone (Italy) 15 Silvia Farina Elia (Italy) 16 Ai Sugiyama (Japan) 17 Fabiola Zuluaga (Colombia) 18 Elena Likhovtseva (Russia) 19 Nathalie Dechy (France) 20 Tatiana Golovin (France) 21 Amy Frazier (US) 22 Magdalena Maleeva (Bulgaria) 23 Jelena Jankovic (Serbia and Montenegro) 24 Mary Pierce (France) 25 Lisa Raymond (US) 26 Daniela Hantuchova (Slovakia) 27 Anna Smashnova (Israel) 28 Shinobu Asagoe (Japan) 29 Gisela Dulko (Argentina) 30 Flavia Pennetta (Italy) 31 Jelena Kostanic (Croatia) 32 Iveta Benesova (Czech Republic)
Moya suffers shock loss Fifth seed Carlos Moya was the first big name to fall at the Australian Open as he went down to fellow Spaniard Guillermo Garcia-Lopez on Monday. Moya began the year with victory at the Chennai Open but looked out of sorts from the start in the Melbourne heat. Garcia-Lopez, ranked 106 in the world, dominated from the outset and withstood a third-set rally from Moya to hang on for a 7-5 6-3 3-6 6-3 victory. The 21-year-old plays Kevin Kim or Lee Hyuung-Taik in the second round. Garcia-Lopez was delighted with the victory in only his third ever Grand Slam match. "I think this was the most important win of my life as Carlos is one of the best players in the world," he said. "This has given me a lot of confidence. Now I feel I can beat all these players." Moya said: "I was playing well before I came here. It was the perfect preparation but something was wrong today." Four-time champion Andre Agassi began what could be his last Australian Open with a convincing win over German qualifier Dieter Kindlmann. The 34-year-old American, who had been struggling with a hip injury earlier in the week, stormed to a 6-4 6-3 6-0 win. Agassi will play France's Olivier Patience or Germany's Rainer Schuettler - the man he beat in the 2003 final - in the next round. "No one was more concerned (about the injury) than myself," said eighth seed Agassi. "I'd worked hard to be down here and ready. But the last few days, I've pushed through the injury and it seemed to do pretty good." In other matches, world junior champion Gael Monfils made use of his wild card with a magnificent 1-6 6-3 6-4 7-6 (8-6) win over American Robby Ginepri. The 2002 champion Thomas Johansson fought back to beat Peter Luczak 7-6 (7-5) 4-6 6-3 4-6 6-0, and French Open champion Gaston Gaudio beat Justin Gimelstob 7-6 (7-3) 6-4 6-3. Seeds Dominik Hrbaty, Ivan Ljubicic and Mario Ancic made comfortable progress, but former French Open champion Albert Costa lost to Bjorn Phau.
Clijsters hope on Aussie Open Kim Clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of January's Australian Open because of her persistent wrist injury. Open chief Paul McNamee had said: "Kim's wrist obviously isn't going to be rehabilitated." But her spokesman insisted she had simply delayed submitting her entry. "The doctors are assessing her injury on a weekly basis and if there is no risk she could play. But if there's the least risk she will stay away." Despite being absent from the WTA entry list for the tournament, which begins on 17 January, Clijsters would be certain to get a wild card if she requested one. Clijsters is still ranked 22nd in the world despite only playing a handful of matches last season. The Belgian had an operation on her left wrist early in the season but injured it again on her return to the tour. Meanwhile, Jelena Dokic, who used to compete for Australia, has opted out of the first Grand Slam of the season. Dokic has not played in the Australian Open since 2001 when she lost in the first round. But the 21-year-old would have had to rely on a wild card next season because her ranking has tumbled to 127th. Four-time champion Monica Seles, who has not played since last year's French Open, is another absentee because of an injured left foot.
Clijsters could play Aussie Open Kim Clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of January's Australian Open because of her persistent wrist injury. Open chief Paul McNamee had said: "Kim's wrist obviously isn't going to be rehabilitated." But her spokesman insisted she had simply delayed submitting her entry. "The doctors are assessing her injury on a weekly basis and if there is no risk she could play. But if there's the least risk she will stay away." Despite being absent from the WTA entry list for the tournament, which begins on 17 January, Clijsters would be certain to get a wild card if she requested one. Clijsters is still ranked 22nd in the world despite only playing a handful of matches last season. The Belgian had an operation on her left wrist early in the season but injured it again on her return to the tour. Meanwhile, Jelena Dokic, who used to compete for Australia, has opted out of the first Grand Slam of the season. Dokic has not played in the Australian Open since 2001 when she lost in the first round. But the 21-year-old would have had to rely on a wild card next season because her ranking has tumbled to 127th. Four-time champion Monica Seles, who has not played since last year's French Open, is another absentee because of an injured left foot.
Edgy Agassi struggles past Dent Andre Agassi put in an erratic display before edging into the fourth round of the Australian Open with victory over Taylor Dent. The 34-year-old American, seeded eighth, made a poor start, dropping serve early on and later needing two chances to serve out the set. Having secured the lead, Agassi still failed to take control as both players forced a succession of breaks. But Agassi won the tie-break before wrapping up a 7-5 7-6 (7-3) 6-1 win. Fourth seed survived an injury scare as he battled past Mario Ancic 6-4 3-6 6-3 6-4. The Russian turned his right ankle in the third game of the fourth set and called for treatment immediately. But he showed no sign of the problem when he returned to the court to wrap up victory in two hours 45 minutes. Ancic, Wimbledon semi-finalist in 2004, looked set to push Safin all the way when he took the second set but Safin raised his game to sink the Croatian. Safin said he was trying to keep his temper under control at this year's tournament. The Russian hit himself on the head repeatedly in one second-set outburst but was otherwise largely calm in his victory. "I try to stay calm because if you go crazy against players like Ancic, you might never come back because he's a tough opponent," he said. "I'm a little bit calmer than I was before because I'd had enough." The Russian added that he was not worried by his ankle injury. "I have had a lot of problems with that ankle before - it will be OK," he said. 's route to the fourth round was made easy when opponent Jarkko Nieminen was forced to retire from their match. The top seed and defending champion was leading 6-3 5-2 when Nieminen pulled out with an abdominal injury. Federer had been in patchy form until then - mixing 19 unforced errors with 19 winners. The world number one will play Cypriot next after the former world junior champion beat Tommy Robredo 7-6 (7-2) 6-4 6-1. Federer admitted he was under extra pressure after extending his winning streak to a career-best 24. "They are so used to me winning, but it's not that simple," he said. "I had a feeling this could be a tough match. I had a bad start but I bounced back. I always want to play better than I am, but I thought I was pretty OK." French Open champion is out of the tournament after a five-set defeat by Dominik Hrbaty. Hrbaty defeated the 10th seed 7-6 (7-5) 6-7 (8-10) 6-7 (3-7) 6-1 6-3 in a match lasting four hours and 21 minutes. The pair traded 16 service breaks during an exhausting baseline battle, with Hrbaty taking a decisive advantage in the eighth game of the final set. Hrbaty will now play 2002 champion , who outlasted American Kevin Kim 3-6 6-2 6-7 6-2 6-2.
Roddick splits from coach Gilbert Andy Roddick has ended an 18-month association with coach Brad Gilbert which yielded the US Open title and saw the American become world number one. Roddick released a statement through the SFX Sports Group with the news but did not give a reason for the split. "The decision to not re-hire Brad Gilbert for the 2005 season is based on what I think is best for my game at this time," said Roddick. "Any more on this situation's a private matter between coach and player." Roddick won 121 of his 147 matches while working with Gilbert, and said he had enjoyed their time together. He won his first Grand Slam event at Flushing Meadows last year, and finished 2003 on top of the ATP Tour rankings. But Roddick slipped to second this year behind Roger Federer, who became the first man since 1988 to win three Majors in a season. Federer, who has not had a coach since he split from Peter Lundgren at the end of last year, beat Roddick to win the Wimbledon title and in two other tournament finals. Roddick hired Gilbert after deciding to part from coach Tarik Benhabiles in the wake of his first-round exit at the 2003 French Open. He went on to win the US Open and four other titles for the year. He has won four events this season. "I have enjoyed all of my time with Andy," Gilbert said on his personal website. "He has been a great student of the game during the time that we worked together and I am very proud of the results that were achieved. "While I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done, Andy clearly does not feel that way."
Roddick in talks over new coach Andy Roddick is reportedly close to confirming US Davis Cup assistant Dean Goldfine as his new coach. Roddick ended his 18-month partnership with Brad Gilbert on Monday, and Goldfine admits talks have taken place. "We had a really good conversation and we're on the same page in terms of what I expect from a player in commitment and what he wants," said Goldfine. "The reading I got from him is that I would have a lot of the qualities he's looking for in a coach." Speaking to told South Florida's Sun-Sentinel newspaper, Goldfine added: "That being said, from his standpoint, which is smart, he wants to cover all his bases. "I think Andy wants a long-term relationship and wants to make sure it's the right fit... the best fit." Goldfine, 39, has worked with Todd Martin and Roddick's close friend Mardy Fish, and was an assistant coach with the US Olympic team. Martin is the other name to have been linked to the vacant post alongside Roddick.
Hewitt survives Nalbandian epic Home favourite Lleyton Hewitt came through a dramatic five-set battle with Argentine David Nalbandian to reach the Australian Open semi-finals. Hewitt looked to be cruising to victory after racing into a two-set lead. But Nalbandian broke his serve three times in both of the next two sets to set up a nailbiting decider. Hewitt eventually grabbed the vital break in the 17th game and served out to win 6-3 6-2 1-6 3-6 10-8 and set up a meeting with Andy Roddick. The winner of that match will face either Roger Federer or Marat Safin in the final. Ninth seed Nalbandian had never come back from two sets down to win a match, and there was no indication he would do so as Hewitt dominated the first two sets. The Argentine had stoked up the temperature ahead of the match by saying Hewitt's exuberant on-court celebrations were "not very good for the sport". And he had words with Hewitt during one change of ends in the second set when the Australian appeared to brush shoulders with him as they went to their chairs. The balance of power changed completely in the third set as Hewitt allowed his level to dip, and he double-faulted twice as Nalbandian broke on the way to taking the fourth set. But the tiring third seed showed incredible reserves of strength to force the break despite being outplayed for much of the final set and three times coming within two points of defeat. He then produced a love service game to finish off the match in four hours and five minutes. "I just kept hanging in there. It was always tough serving second in the fifth set," said Hewitt, who had never reached the last four at his home Grand Slam. "I told myself to give everything and in the end it paid off once again. "It's a long way from holding that trophy up there but I'm hanging in there. "Only four guys left that can win and we're the top four in the world. It's set up for a pretty good showdown in the semis and finals."
Sydney return for Henin-Hardenne Olympic champion Justine Henin-Hardenne will return to action in January's Sydney International tournament. The Belgian has not competed since losing her top world ranking at the US Open in September, where she was beaten in the fourth round by Nadia Petrova. She took time out to shake off a virus but will defend her titles in Sydney and at the Australian Open. Women's world number one Lindsay Davenport and French Open champion Anastasia Myskina will also compete. In the men's event, world number three Lleyton Hewitt returns to defend his title, along with runner-up Carlos Moya. Moya, Spain's Davis Cup final hero in their recent win over the US, had to retire with an ankle injury in the first set of the final. Tournament director Craig Watson said: "I had a message relayed to me from him after Spain's Davis Cup victory, saying he was looking forward to trying to make up for his disappointment in the (2004) final. The tournament will take place from 9-15 January.
Koubek suspended after drugs test Stefan Koubek says he has been banned for three months by the International Tennis Federation (ITF) after testing positive for a banned substance. The world number 60 failed a routine drugs test at this year's French Open but now plans to lodge an appeal. Koubek believes an injection given to him by an Austrian doctor to treat a wrist injury is to blame for producing traces of the substance in his system. "I have acted correctly," the 27-year-old Austrian said in a statement. Koubek, who defeated Britain's Greg Rusedski in the decisive rubber of the Davis Cup in September, is now set to miss the start of the season. He said, "A three-month ban would mean that I not only will miss the Australian Open, but also the Davis Cup in Australia."
Hewitt fights back to reach final Lleyton Hewitt kept his dream of an Australian Open title alive with a four-set win over Andy Roddick in Friday's second semi-final. The home favourite will face Marat Safin in Sunday's final after coming through 3-6 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-4) 6-1. Hewitt fought back from a set down and trailed in both tie-breaks but would not be denied, thrilling the Melbourne crowd with a typically battling effort. He is aiming to be the first Australian winner since Mark Edmondson in 1976. Hewitt is the first Australian to make the final since Pat Cash lost to Mats Wilander in 1988, but faces a huge challenge against Safin - the conqueror of Roger Federer. After needing five sets in his last two matches there was reason to think Hewitt might struggle for fitness. He certainly made a sluggish start, dropping his opening service game, and Roddick dominated with his huge serve as he took the first set. After 12 tense games in the second, the key moment came when Hewitt raised his game in the tie-break to overturn an early mini-break. That energised the crowd but Roddick was not finished and raced 4-1 clear in the crucial third before Hewitt pegged him back and forced another tie-break. Again Roddick broke first and again Hewitt fought back, taking the lead with a superb backhand pass. The Australian was not to be denied and a disheartened Roddick made little impact in the fourth set as Hewitt raced to victory, sending the Melbourne crowd wild and ensuring the final will be a huge occasion. "It's awesome," said Hewitt. "I started preparing for this tournament nine months ago. "I've done a lot of hard yards to get here. "I've always said I'd do anything to get in the first night final at the Australian Open. Now I've got my chance." Roddick was furious with himself for failing to take advantage of leads in both tie-breaks. "I'm usually pretty money in those," said Roddick. "Either one of those would have given me a distinct advantage. "I'm mad, I felt I was in there with a shot. He put himself in position to win big points. I donated a little more than I would have wanted." And the American played down the influence of one spectator who appeared to contribute to a double fault by shouting during Rodick's service action. "It just took one jackass to shout out," said Roddick, adding that the crowd overall was "very respectful".
Officials respond in court row Australian tennis' top official has defended the Australian Open courts at Melbourne Park after criticism of the playing surface by Lleyton Hewitt. Hewitt said he had had a "gutful" of trying to persuade them to make the surface faster but Tennis Australia's Geoff Pollard rejected his comments. "We did ask for it to be made faster than last year and, to my knowledge, it is faster," he said. "We spent a substantial amount of money on modifications to make it faster." Hewitt, who has not got past the fourth round at Melbourne in seven attempts, had earlier said the surface was not worthy of such a prestigious tournament. But he said he would play on whatever surface he had to in order to have a chance of winning. The tournament starts on 17 January, and Pollard said the surface had been speeded up since last year's tournament following complaints by several Australian players. But he refused to accept that the Melbourne surface may have had a bearing on Hewitt's performances over the years. "Lleyton's proving how versatile he is on all surfaces," he said. "It is faster than last year and that'll be faster than the one Lleyton beat Roger Federer on in the Davis Cup in 2003."
Williams battles to Aussie title Serena Williams staged a remarkable recovery to beat Lindsay Davenport and win her second Australian Open title. The 2003 champion claimed her seventh Grand Slam title, and her first since Wimbledon in 2003, 2-6 6-3 6-0. Williams had looked close to quitting with a rib injury when she left the court for treatment after five games. She quickly dropped the first set but from 3-3 in the second found another gear as Davenport's game collapsed, allowing Williams to take the title. Williams later explained her injury problem, saying it was the result of lunging for a ball early in the first set. "Lindsay had me on the run out wide on my backhand and my back went but eventually I was able to come back, thank goodness," she said. Davenport paid tribute to Williams, saying: "She's had a tough couple of years and she's come back like a champion." The 23-year-old former world number one was in desperate trouble in the early stages as the injury hampered her service action. Davenport took advantage to race through the opening set and held six break points in game five of the second. "I kept thinking to myself 'I'm not losing this game," said Williams afterwards. "'I don't care if my arm falls off, I'm not losing this game'. And I guess that's what happened. "I didn't want to lose that particular game because it would have given her a lot of momentum, and a lot of confidence." Despite letting the break points slip away Davenport looked comfortable enough at 3-3, but from 40-0 up she just folded. Williams won nine consecutive points for the set and powered through the decider as a lacklustre Davenport looked to have run out of energy after a gruelling two weeks. "I felt like I was playing well and in control pretty much of the match," said Davenport. "Then I just had that horrible lapse, I think serving up 40-0, and made a few errors and opened up the door for her and she just kept going through it. "At the end I think I was a little bit fatigued but she took advantage of it and kept going - she's a great frontrunner when she gets going."
Safin cool on Wimbledon Newly-crowned Australian Open champion Marat Safin has ruled out any chance of winning Wimbledon in the future. After losing in round one last year, Safin said he had "given up" on Wimbledon and winning his second Grand Slam title has not changed his mind. "I'll play, but with no expectations. I feel like I can't waste my time, my energy on that surface," he said. "Some people, they cannot play on clay. Some people, they cannot play on a hard court. Me, I can't play on grass." However, Safin is hopeful that winning the Australian Open will give him the belief he needs to win more Grand Slam titles. "It's a relief for me. Two grand slams, it's already something. But with this one I worked really hard for it," he said. "Basically, I would love to win a couple more. I think I have a chance if I continue this way. "If (coach) Peter Lundgren will stick around with me and wants to work with me for a bit longer, I think I can make it." The 25-year-old shocked Pete Sampras in the 2000 US Open final to win his first major title but then lost in two Australian Open finals. Safin admitted he had begun to doubt whether he would win another Grand Slam. "I didn't expect that (to win the 2000 US Open) - it was against Sampras, I wasn't the favourite so I had no pressure whatsoever," he said. "After the first final that I didn't win against Thomas Johansson (in 2002), I couldn't see myself winning the Grand Slams anymore. "I was once in the semi-finals of the French Open, but I didn't believe I can win it. "I just couldn't handle the pressure. You need to believe in yourself, and I didn't." And after losing the first set 6-1 to Lleyton Hewitt in Sunday's final, Safin said he began to doubt himself again. "I am 25. I'm playing against Hewitt. At least you have to have the opportunity to win it, at least have a chance," he said. "It's like you go there and you lose first set 6-1, then you start to think: 'This is not my day. The way I'm playing is ridiculous.' "But then you start to really be a little bit more selfish and try to find a way out of there. "And I found it. I was like really much I was much happier than in 2000, that's for sure, because I get over it."
Safin plays down Wimbledon hopes Newly-crowned Australian Open champion Marat Safin has ruled out any chance of winning Wimbledon in the future. After losing in round one last year, Safin said he had "given up" on Wimbledon and winning his second Grand Slam title has not changed his mind. "I'll play, but with no expectations. I feel like I can't waste my time, my energy on that surface," he said. "Some people, they cannot play on clay. Some people, they cannot play on a hard court. Me, I can't play on grass." However, Safin is hopeful that winning the Australian Open will give him the belief he needs to win more Grand Slam titles. "It's a relief for me. Two grand slams, it's already something. But with this one I worked really hard for it," he said. "Basically, I would love to win a couple more. I think I have a chance if I continue this way. "If (coach) Peter Lundgren will stick around with me and wants to work with me for a bit longer, I think I can make it." The 25-year-old shocked Pete Sampras in the 2000 US Open final to win his first major title but then lost in two Australian Open finals. Safin admitted he had begun to doubt whether he would win another Grand Slam. "I didn't expect that (to win the 2000 US Open) - it was against Sampras, I wasn't the favourite so I had no pressure whatsoever," he said. "After the first final that I didn't win against Thomas Johansson (in 2002), I couldn't see myself winning the Grand Slams anymore. "I was once in the semi-finals of the French Open, but I didn't believe I can win it. "I just couldn't handle the pressure. You need to believe in yourself, and I didn't." And after losing the first set 6-1 to Lleyton Hewitt in Sunday's final, Safin said he began to doubt himself again. "I am 25. I'm playing against Hewitt. At least you have to have the opportunity to win it, at least have a chance," he said. "It's like you go there and you lose first set 6-1, then you start to think: 'This is not my day. The way I'm playing is ridiculous.' "But then you start to really be a little bit more selfish and try to find a way out of there. "And I found it. I was like really much I was much happier than in 2000, that's for sure, because I get over it."
Nadal puts Spain 2-0 up Result: Nadal 6-7 (6/8) 6-2 7-6 (8/6) 6-2 Roddick Spain's Rafael Nadal beats Andy Roddick of the USA in the second singles match rubber of the 2004 Davis Cup final in Seville. Spain lead 1-0 after Carlos Moya beat Mardy Fish in straight sets in the opening match of the tie. Nadal holds his nerve and the crowd goes wild as Spain go 2-0 up in the tie. Roddick holds serve to force Nadal to serve for the match but the American surely cannot turn things around now. Nadal works Roddick around the court on two consecutive points to earn two break points. One is enough, the Spaniard secures the double-break and Roddick is now teetering on the edge. Roddick is trying to gee himself up but the clay surface is taking its toll on his game and he is looking tired. Nadal wins the game to love. Nadal steps up the pressure to break and Spain have the early initiative in the fourth set. Nadal also holds convincingly as both players feel their way into the fourth set. Roddick shrugs off the disappointment of losing the third-set tiebreak and breezes through his first service game of the fourth set. Nadal earns the first mini-break in the tiebreak as the match enters its fourth hour. A couple of stunning points follow, one where Nadal chases down a Roddick shot and turns into a passing winner. Then Roddick produces some amazing defence at the net to take the score to 4-4. Roddick has two serves for the set but double-faults to take the score to 5-5. Nadal saves a Roddick set point then earns his own with a drive volley - and a crosscourt passing winner sends the crowd wild. Nadal tries to up his aggression and he passes Roddick down the line to go 15-40 and two set points up. Roddick saves the first with a desperate lunge volley and smacks a volley winner across the court to take the score back to deuce before securing the game. The set will go to another tiebreak. Nadal enjoys another straightforward hold and Roddick must once again serve to stay in the set. Roddick again holds on, despite some brilliant shot-making from his opponent. Nadal races through his service game to put the pressure straight back onto Roddick. Roddick hangs in on his serve to level matters but Nadal is making him fight for every point. Nadal could be suffering a disappointment hangover from the previous game as he goes 0-30 down and then has to save a break point after a tremendous rally in which he is forced into some brilliant defence. But it pays off and the Spaniard edges ahead in the set. Roddick's serve is not firing as ferociously as usual and has to rely on his sheer competitive determination to stay in the set. Three times, Nadal forces a break point and three times the world number two hangs in. And Roddick's grit pays off as he manages to hold. Roddick still looks a bit sluggish but he attacks the net and is rewarded with a break point, which Nadal saves with a good first serve and the Spaniard goes on to hold. There is a disruption in play as Roddick is upset about something in the crowd. The Spanish captain gets involved as does the match referee but it is unclear what the problem is. One thing for certain is that the crowd are roused into support of Nadal and they go wild when Roddick loses the next point and goes break point down. Roddick saves the break point and then bangs down his ninth ace before clinching the game with a service winner. The game passes the two-hour mark as Nadal holds serve to edge ahead in the third set. Now Roddick has to defend a break point and he produces a characteristic ace to save it. It is immediately followed by another and he holds with a little dinked half-volley winner. Roddick is looking a little leaden-footed but does carve out a break point for himself. But he plays it poorly and Nadal avoids the danger. Roddick has gone off the boil and again struggles. He fails to get down properly for a low forehand volley and gives Nadal three break points. The American blasts an ace to save one but follows up with a double fault and the rubber is level. Nadal edges towards taking the second set with a comfortable hold. Two good serves put Roddick 30-0 up but he then makes a couple of errors to find himself 30-40 down. He saves the break point with an ace and then manages to hold. Roddick's level has dropped while Nadal is on a hot streak. The Spaniard includes a superb crosscourt winner off the back foot as he races through his service game without dropping a point. Roddick double-faults twice and Nadal takes full advantage of the break point offered, powering a passing winner past Roddick. Nadal wins another tight game. Neither player has dipped from the high standard of play in the first set. Nadal puts the American under pressure and Roddick saves a break point with a superb stop volley before going on to hold. Nadal puts the disappointment of losing the first-set tiebreak to claim the opening game in the second. Roddick double-faults to concede the first mini-break and then Nadal loops a crosscourt winner to seize advantage in the tiebreak. He lets one slip but wins his next serve to earn three set points. But Roddick saves them and then earns one himself. Nadal comes up with a down-the-line winner but then nets tamely on Roddick's next set point. Nadal's nerve is tested as he tries to force a tiebreak. Both players come up with some scintillating tennis and the Spaniard has several chances to clinch the game before finally doing so when Roddick drives wide. A pulsating game sees Nadal racing round the court retrieving and refusing to give Roddick any easy points. The point of the match so far involves Roddick's slam-dunk smash being returned by Nadal before Roddick finally manages to end the rally. On the very next point, Nadal blasts a forehand service return from right of court that passes Roddick and even the American is forced to applaud. But Roddick comes up with two big serves to polish off the game. Nadal outplays Roddick to reach 40-0 but the American fights back to 40-30 before Nadal's powerful crosscourt forehand winner secures the game. The crowd are getting very involved, cheering between Roddick's first and second serves. But the American comes through to hold and edge ahead in the set. Nadal manages to hold again despite Roddick piling the pressure on his serve. The Spaniard wins the game courtesy of another lucky net cord. Roddick double faults buts manages to keep his composure. A well-placed serve is unreturnable and Roddick holds. A powerful ace down the middle gives Nadal a simple love service game - the first time he has held serve so far in the match. If Roddick didn't know before, he knows now that he is in a real contest. Another superb game as Nadal breaks to once again lift the roof. He produces some fine groundstrokes to leave Roddick chasing shadows. Four of the first five games have seen a break of serve. Despite the disappointment of losing his serve, Roddick is not phased and storms into a 40-15 lead when the umpire leaves his seat to confirm a close line-call. Nadal takes the next point but Roddick breaks again with a sharp volley at the net. Roddick's advantage is short lived as Nadal breaks back immediately. A fortunate net cord helps the Spaniard on his way and when Roddick fires a forehand cross court shot wide to lose his serve, Nadal pumps his fist in celebration. The American is pumped up for this clash and takes on Nadal's serve from the start. Nadal's drop shot is agonisingly called out and Roddick claims the vital first break. After Moya's win in the opening rubber, a raucous Seville crowd is buoyed by Nadal's impressive start which sees him race into a 30-0 lead. However Roddick fights back to hold his serve.
Henman & Murray claim LTA awards Tim Henman was named player of the year for 2004 by the Lawn Tennis Association at Wimbledon on Monday. The Briton was recognised for the best year of his career, which saw him reach the semis at the French and US Opens. Scotland's Andrew Murray was named young player of the year after winning the US Open juniors, as well as a Futures event in Italy. And world number one Peter Norfolk won disabled player of the year after claiming his third US Open crown. Great Britain's under 14 boys won the team of the year prize for their victory at the World Junior Tennis event in August. Henman will start his 2005 campaign at the Kooyong event on 12 January in a field that includes Roger Federer, Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi. And the Briton is optimistic of surpassing his best effort of a fourth-round place at the Australian Open, which begins the following week. "I've often felt that the conditions suit my game in Melbourne so I'd love to be able to start next year by doing well at the Australian Open," Henman told his website. "That's why I've changed my schedule slightly by committing to play in the Kooyong Classic. "I'll be able to acclimatise while practising before the event and then will be guaranteed matches against the best players in the world. "I think that will give me the best possible chance of doing well at the Australian Open."
Connors' rallying cry for British tennis "Do you have it in your heart? How much guts do you have? How much do you hate to lose?" These are the questions Jimmy Connors will be asking of Britain's brightest tennis hopes in the months, and possibly years, to come. The American legend swept into London on Thursday to announce a "long-term" relationship with the Lawn Tennis Association after spending three days at the Elite Performance winter camp in La Manga. And the man who epitomised the phrase 'will to win' before Lleyton Hewitt was even born is clear about the qualities he hopes to convey. "You know, everybody hits the ball well and there's a very fine line between number one and number 100," said Connors. "I was that fine line for a long time. But if I can help, I want to be part of teaching kids how to win." Connors is not the first great name to offer his services to the LTA - his long-time rival John McEnroe has repeatedly done the same. But Connors is at pains to point out that his interest goes well beyond any publicity stunt, and he gave a glowing recommendation to the work of LTA performance director David Felgate and his team. "Britain has a different attitude, the right attitude, in taking the game forward and finding the next Wimbledon champion," said Connors. "That's something you don't find every day. Everybody talks a good game but not everybody puts that into effect. "The impression I came away with after just seeing David and the other coaches for three days was one like I've never seen before, especially over here. "This is not going to happen overnight, there are no miracle workers, but you're going in the right direction." The 52-year-old's enthusiasm for the work going on in this country is in marked contrast to his relationship with tennis officials back in America. "I've had discussions with the USTA (United States Tennis Association) over a number of years," he said. "That's where it (my input) ended." Connors is a straight-talker and will be equally blunt and honest in his dealings with the LTA and the cream of Britain's young players. "If they're chosen, they've got to produce," he said. "If not, someone will come and take their place. There's only one number one spot and it's lonely up there, but it's got the best view." In the year that has seen Andrew Murray emerge as Britain's great new hope, Connors rejected suggestions that the Scot might be put under too much pressure too soon. "Tim Henman has a whole country on his shoulder," said Connors. "I don't know that pressure, but if you like that it can be a certain push to get on to the next level. "Someone's going to have to come and take over from him (Henman). If I was Andrew Murray, I'd embrace that. That's what we play for." Despite the emphasis on hard work, training and preparation, Connors does admit that the desire required of a champion has to come from within. "The passion I had, I don't know if you can find that," he admitted. "I was also nuts. I say that because there was nothing better for me than to compete on the tennis court. "It was the most important thing in the world for me, and to do that something's got to be not right with you. There was nothing better for me ever than to play tennis in front of 25,000 people. "What I had when I played tennis is what I am. You have to have that, you can't be moulded."
Roche 'turns down Federer offer' Australian tennis coach Tony Roche has turned down an approach from Roger Federer to be the world number one's new full-time coach, say reports. Melbourne's Herald-Sun said Roche, troubled by a hip complaint, did not want to travel full-time again. However, Roche is happy to work with the Swiss star on a casual basis and is helping him prepare for next month's defence of his Australian Open crown. Federer has been without a coach since splitting with Peter Lundgren in 2003. Roche, a former Davis Cup player for Australia, won the French Open, reached the Wimbledon and US Open finals and won five Wimbledon doubles titles with John Newcombe. He also coached former number one Ivan Lendl and Pat Rafter to Grand Slam victories and has worked with Australia's Lleyton Hewitt. Some reports claim Federer initially wanted Andre Agassi's Australian coach Darren Cahill, before Agassi confirmed he would play on in 2005. Federer was named Swiss sportsman of the year on Saturday, to add to the BBC overseas sportsman and European Sports Journalists Association awards he has already won.
Federer joins all-time greats The last year has seen one player dominate men's tennis, and one country dominate the women's game. Roger Federer became the first man since Mats Wilander in 1988 to win three Grand Slams in one season. And after Anastasia Myskina became the first Russian woman to win a Grand Slam at the French Open, two more followed at Wimbledon and the US Open. Meanwhile, Briton Tim Henman enjoyed his best year, while Greg Rusedski fought back superbly from adversity. Federer began the year as world number one and holder of the Wimbledon and Masters Cup titles, and set about conquering new ground. The Swiss sounded warning of the dominance to come at the Australian Open. He ripped through the draw before beating Marat Safin in the final. Andy Roddick was the only player to put up any real resistance at Wimbledon, and Federer's performance against Lleyton Hewitt in the US Open final was breathtaking. Federer again got the better of Hewitt in the season-ending Masters Cup. His victory in Houston proved to be his 13th successive win in a final, an Open era record. The only major let-down was a third-round loss to Gustavo Kuerten at the French Open, and Roland Garros will be his main target in 2005. There was also a surprise loss to the unheralded Tomas Berdych at the Olympic Games, which saw Chile dominate as Nicoals Massu took the singles and then paired up with Fernando Gonzaelz to win doubles gold. Another major trophy that looks beyond Federer is the Davis Cup, which was won by Spain in a 3-2 home success over the USA in Seville. Roddick struggled on the clay, losing to Rafael Nadal on the opening day before going down to Carlos Moya in the all-important fourth rubber. Henman broke new ground by reaching the semis on clay at the French Open - a stunning effort - and also at the US Open. A quarter-final defeat to Mario Ancic at Wimbledon was disappointing for the limp manner of the Briton's defeat, but he remains optimistic of going further next year. British number two Rusedski endured a rollercoaster year, returning to the circuit after being cleared of a doping offence in March. With his ranking down at 168, many feared the 31-year-old's career was over, but he battled back in the second half of the season to re-enter the top 50. The Russian women finally delivered on their long-recognised promise in 2004, with Myskina, Maria Sharapova and Svetlana Kuznetsova winning Grand Slams, before taking the season-ending Fed Cup. But while the young Russians were on the way up, it was a different story for the Belgians and the Williams sisters. Only veteran Lindsay Davenport held the new wave at bay, a stunning run of form after Wimbledon taking her to number one ahead of Amelie Mauresmo, whose Grand Slam drought goes on. The year started in regulation fashion as Justine Henin-Hardenne beat compatriot Kim Clijsters at the Australian Open. A virus ruined the rest of Henin-Hardenne's year, although she was fit enough to win Olympic gold, but Clijsters had an even more miserable 2004. She suffered a serious wrist injury and then announced the end of her relationship with Lleyton Hewitt, and will be happy to see the year end. In their absence, Myskina thrashed Elena Dementieva in a historic, but woeful, all-Russian final at the French Open. Wimbledon was a more refreshing affair as Sharapova captivated SW19, showing nerves of steel as she battled past Davenport and Serena Williams to take the title. Davenport was a strong favourite for the US Open but, hampered by injury, lost to the powerful and unflappable Kuznetsova in the semis. Kuznetsova went on to give Dementieva another Grand Slam final thrashing, with the latter's wayward serve becoming one of the talking points of the year. With the Russians still improving, the likes of Henin-Hardenne, Clijsters, Davenport, Mauresmo, Venus and Serena will need to be fully fit and motivated in 2005. And it may take their compatriot Safin to challenge Federer on the men's side.
Philippoussis doubt over Open bid Mark Philippoussis is almost certain to miss the Australian Open after suffering a groin injury during the Hopman Cup loss to the Netherlands. The 28-year-old suffered two tears to the adductor muscle and was unable to play in the deciding mixed doubles. He is now unlikely to be fit in time for the Australian Open which begins on 17 January in Melbourne. "He has to strengthen it enough to cope with repetitive days of tennis," said Hopman Cup doctor Hamish Osborne. "It would be very unlikely in my opinion for him to do a five-setter once, let alone two days in a row, inside two weeks. "The injury is more common in Australian Rules football, and a fit footballer would normally take three to four weeks to recover fully although Mark's injury is slightly different." The Australian has suffered a host of injury problems throughout his career but is still holding out slim hope that he can make the event. "It's something I'll have to go by feel. I'll start treatment as soon as possible and try to strengthen it without tearing it any more," he said. "What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. I know I can come back from this and that's all that matters. - Former world number two Tommy Haas is also a doubt for the Australian Open after picking up a thigh injury playing for Germany in the Hopman Cup. The 26-year-old had treatment on his left thigh while leading Argentine Guillermo Coria 7-5 2-2. He played one more game, but his movement was hampered and he quit.
Slovakia reach Hopman Cup final Slovakia will play Argentina in the final of the Hopman Cup after beating Group B rivals the Netherlands 3-0. Daniela Hantuchova defeated Michaella Krajicek 6-4 6-2 to give the Slovaks the perfect start before Dutchman Peter Wessels retired against Dominik Hrbaty. Wessels was unable to compete in the mixed doubles but Slovakia had already booked their place in the final for the second year running. Argentina claimed top spot in Group A with three wins from three matches. In the other Group B match, the United States defeated Australia 2-1. Meghann Shaughnessy lost the opening match against Alicia Molik but James Blake levelled the tie with a 6-3 6-4 win over Paul Baccanello, who came in as a replacement for the injured Mark Philippoussis. Blake and Shaughnessy then beat Molik and Baccanello in a tense mixed doubles contest to take the win. Hantuchova, who did not win a Hopman Cup singles match in 2004, has been in good form during this year's event and has won two of her three matches. "I feel like it's really deserved this time as I've helped Dominik to get through," she said. "I think if I keep going the way I have been in the past few matches then I will be okay. "I was really pleased with my last two singles, even the first one, which was a really high standard. "You can't ask for a better preparation than to play a few matches here for the Australian Open."
Dent continues Adelaide progress American Taylor Dent reached the final of the Australian hardcourt event in Adelaide with a crushing 6-1 6-1 win over Argentine Juan Ignacio Chela. Dent will meet Swede Joachim Johansson on Sunday after the second seed survived a tense tie-break to defeat Belgium's Olivier Rochus 6-1 7-6 (7/5). Johansson, the boyfriend of Lleyton Hewitt's sister Jaslyn, received strong crowd support on Saturday. "It feels like home for me, because Jaslyn lives here," said Johansson. Rochus was leading 5-4 in the second set tiebreak but his concentration was ruffled by a disputed line call and the match slipped away. "It was so close - one mistake like this and the match is over, it's tough. For me, it was clearly out," Rochus said.
Moya sidesteps Davis Cup in 2005 Carlos Moya has chosen not to help Spain try and defend the Davis Cup crown they won in Seville in November. Moya led Spain to victory over the USA but wants to focus on the Grand Slams in 2005, although insists he will return to the Davis Cup in 2006. "After two years of total commitment with the Davis Cup team... I have taken this difficult decision to concentrate on the regular circuit," said Moya. "They know that after this season they can count on me again if they so wish." The 1998 French Open champion is determined to make an impact in the major events after spending much of the last eight years in the top 10. "At the age of 29 I have set some tough goals in my professional career and this season I need to fix my objectives on specific dates and tournaments," he said. "Since the Davis Cup in Seville I have been working on my condition as well as technical and medical aspects of my game which will allow me to come into the big events of the year in top form." Moya began 2005 with victory in the Chennai Open on Sunday.
Henman decides to quit Davis Cup Tim Henman has retired from Great Britain's Davis Cup team. The 30-year-old, who made his Davis Cup debut in 1994, is now set to fully focus on the ATP Tour and on winning his first Grand Slam event. "I've made no secret of the fact that representing Great Britain has always been a top priority for me throughout my career," Henman told his website. Captain Jeremy Bates has touted Alex Bogdanovic and Andrew Murray as possible replacements for the veteran. Henman added that he was available to help Britain in its bid for Davis Cup success, with the next tie against Israel in March . "Although I won't be playing, I would still like to make myself available to both Jeremy and the LTA in the future so that I can draw upon my experience in the hope of trying to help the British players develop their full potential," he added. "I've really enjoyed playing in front of the thousands of British fans both home and abroad and would like to thank every one of them for their unwavering support over the years." Henman leaves Davis Cup tennis with an impressive record, having won 36 of his 50 matches. Great Britain captain Jeremy Bates paid tribute to Henman's efforts over the years. "Tim has quite simply had a phenomenal Davis Cup career and it has been an absolute privilege to have captained the team with him in it," said Bates. "Tim's magnificent record speaks for itself. While it's a great loss I completely understand and respect his decision to retire from Davis Cup and focus on the Grand Slams and Tour. " "Looking to the future this decision obviously marks a watershed in British Davis Cup tennis but it is also a huge opportunity for the next generation to make their mark. "We have a host of talented players coming through and despite losing someone of Tim's calibre, I remain very optimistic about the future." Henman made his Davis Cup debut in 1994 against Romania in Manchester. He and partner Bates won their doubles rubber on the middle Saturday of the tie. Britain eventually lost the contest 3-2. Henman and Britain had little luck in Davis Cup matches until 1999 when they qualified for the World Group. Britain drew the USA and lost the tie when Greg Rusedski fell to Jim Courier in the deciding rubber. They made the final stages again, in 2002, but this time lost out to the might of Sweden.
Ivanovic seals Canberra victory Serbia's Ana Ivanovic captured her first WTA title with a straight-sets victory over Hungarian Melinda Czink in the final of the Canberra Classic. The 17-year-old took 83 minutes to take the match 7-5 6-1. Ivanovic beat Czink in the last round of qualifying but the Hungarian made the main draw as a lucky loser after Katarina Srebotnik withdrew injured. Ivanovic said: "I was really nervous in the beginning, but I pulled through and didn't do too much wrong." A junior Wimbledon finalist last year, she added: "It's my first WTA title, and to win it has really given me more energy to practice and improve." Ivanovic will play 32nd seed Iveta Benesova of the Czech Republic in the first round.said of the Australian Open in Melbourne.
Minister digs in over doping row The Belgian sports minister at the centre of the Svetlana Kuznetsova doping row says he will not apologise for making allegations against her. Claude Eerdekens claims the US Open champion tested positive for ephedrine at an exhibition event last month. Criticised for making the announcement, he said: "I will never apologise. This product is banned and it's up to her to explain why it's there." Kuznetsova says the stimulant may have been in a cold remedy she took. The Russian said she did nothing wrong by taking the medicine during the event. The Women's Tennis Association cleared Kuznetsova of any offence because the drug is not banned when taken out of competition. Eerdekens said he made the statement in order to protect the other three players that took part in the tournament, Belgian Justine Henin-Hardenne, Nathalie Dechy of France and Russia's Elena Dementieva. But Dechy is fuming that she has been implicated in the row. "How can you be happy when you see your face on the cover page and talking about doping?" Dechy said. "I'm really upset about it and I think the Belgian government did a really bad job about this. "I think we deserve an apology from the guy. You cannot say anything like this - you cannot say some stuff like this, saying it's one of these girls. This is terrible." Dementieva is also angry and says that Dechy and herself are the real victims of the scandal. "You have no idea what I have been through all these days. It's been too hard on me," she said. "The WTA are trying to handle this problem by saying there are three victims, but I see only two victims in this story - me and Nathalie Dechy, who really have nothing to do with this. "To be honest with you, I don't feel like I want to talk to Sveta at all. I'm just very upset with the way everything has happened."
Safin relieved at Aussie recovery Marat Safin admitted he thought he was suffering another Australian Open final nightmare when he lost the opening set to Lleyton Hewitt. The Russian, who lost the 2002 and 2004 finals, fought back brilliantly to win 1-6 6-3 6-4 6-4. "I was nervous and I couldn't play tennis," said Safin. "He started really well. He wasn't as nervous as I was because I was thinking of the two finals that I played and wasn't successful." He added: "You really have to deal with the pressure because normally it never happens but when you come to the final you are so tight because you want to win. "I tried to play some tennis but I couldn't. He has huge experience, he's won two Grand Slam titles, he's won 24 titles, he's a great player and he deals with pressure." From 4-1 down in the third set, Safin played some of his best tennis to reel off seven games and take control of the match. "In the third set, just all of a sudden, it all turn around completely in a way I couldn't expect," said Safin. "Because he made a couple of mistakes, I was a little bit lucky at some point, then the confidence came back and I was back in the game." And the Russian revealed that the victory, and his semi-final win over world number one Roger Federer, had given him a massive boost for the future. "You get huge confidence because Roger is a great player," said Safin. "Once I beat him, and then Lleyton, it's like you get so much confidence in yourself that you really can play great. "You can win big titles and you can beat huge players in the finals and semi-finals."
Veteran Martinez wins Thai title Conchita Martinez won her first title in almost five years with victory over Anna-Lena Groenefeld at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand. The 32-year-old Spaniard came through 6-3 3-6 6-3 for her first title since Berlin in 2000. "It feels really good," said Martinez, who is playing her last season on the Tour. "To come through like that in an important match feels good. "It's been nearly five years and I didn't think I could do it." Groenefeld was the more powerful player but could not match her opponent's relentless accuracy. "It was my first final, a new experience," said the German. "I think she played a good match, a tough match, but I tried to stay in there. I think the whole week was good for me."
Soderling wins tense Milan final Fifth seed Robin Soderling took the Milan Indoors title with a dramatic win over Radek Stepanek in Sunday's final. The 20-year-old Swede edged the final set tie-break for a 6-3 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-5) victory and his second tour title after winning in Lyon last year. "I'm delighted to have won against such a good opponent in a tournament of this importance," said Soderling. "I was really on form, my service was good and I really liked playing on the synthetic surface." Soderling, the world number 37, shrugged off a nervous start to take the opening set on his first set point. A change in approach from fourth seed Stepanek in the second set paid dividends as he took it on a tie-break, but Soderling's superior power proved too much in the third.
Rusedski forced out in Marseille Greg Rusedski was forced to withdraw from the Open 13 in Marseille on Thursday with a rib injury. The British number two had been scheduled to play qualifier Sebastien de Chaunac, who beat world number five Guillermo Coria 6-4 7-5 in round one. But Rusedski was unable to take to the court because of a problem with the left-hand side of his rib-cage. American Taylor Dent caused a shock with a 7-6 6-2 victory over second seed David Nalbandian. But third seed Joachim Johansson made it through after beating Frenchman Gilles Simon 7-6 6-3 while in the first match of the day, sixth seed Feliciano Lopez defeated Ivo Karlovic. There were also wins for Slovakia's Karol Beck and Croatian duo Ivan Ljubicic and Mario Ancic.
Big guns ease through in San Jose Top-seeded Americans Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the SAP Open. Agassi endured early problems against left-handed Dane Kenneth Carlsen before sealing a 7-5 6-1 victory. And world number three Roddick dropped a set to Korean player Hyung-Taik Lee, before pulling out a 6-3 3-6 6-2 win in San Jose, California. Seventh seed Jurgen Melzer came through 6-3 6-3 against Xavier Malisse - winner in Delray Beach last week. Frenchman Cyril Saulnier, meanwhile, fired 19 aces to secure a 6-1 7-6 win over Czech qualifier Tomas Zib. Roddick broke a racket in frustration in the third game of the second set. and afterwards was unimpressed with his form. "I'm not playing great," he said. "But I'm through and I'm going to keep battling. "A lot of people are under the assumption that it's easy to play well every week and it's not." It is the 12th time in 13 appearances at the event that Agassi, now 34, has progressed to the quarter-final stage. He came from 0-40 down in the opening game to hold serve and gradually wore Carlsen down after attacking his backhand. Agassi also employed several lobs and charged to the net to unsettle the 31-year-old Dane, ranked 88th in the world. "As the match went on, I got real patient and waited for my opportunities and felt pretty good," said Agassi.
Almagro continues Spanish surge Unseeded Nicolas Almagro became the fifth Spaniard to reach the last eight at the Buenos Aires Open, ousting eighth seed Mariano Zabaleta. He showed admirable resolve to win a rain-affected match 6-7 6-4 6-4. Compatriot and seventh seed Rafael Nadal also reached the last eight, beating Italian Potito Starace 6-1 6-3. Nadal, playing in the outdoor clay event for the first time, hit some powerful forehands to oust Starace in a match delayed over an hour by rain. "It's always a problem to have to stop for rain but one gets used to it," said Spanish teenager Nadal. "Luckily, I was able to keep my pace going throughout the match." He will now play Gaston Gaudio, who beat unseeded Brazilian Flavio Saretta 6-3 6-2 in the day's late match.
Melzer shocks Agassi in San Jose Second seed Andre Agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by Jurgen Melzer in the quarter-finals of the SAP Open. Agassi was often bamboozled by the Austrian's drop shots in San Jose, losing 6-3 6-1. Defending champion and top seed Andy Roddick rallied to beat Sweden's Thomas Enqvist 3-6 7-6 (8-6) 7-5. But unseeded Cyril Saulnier beat the fourth seed Vincent Spadea 6-2 6-4 and Tommy Haas overcame eighth seed Max Mirnyi 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-3) 6-2. Melzer has now beaten Agassi in two of their three meetings. "I had a good game plan and I executed it perfectly," he said. "It's always tough to come out to play Andre. "I didn't want him to play his game. He makes you run like a dog all over the court." And Agassi, who was more than matched for power by his opponent's two-handed backhand, said Melzer was an example of several players on the tour willing to take their chances against him. "A lot more guys are capable of it now," said the American. "He played much better than me. That's what he did both times. "I had opportunities to loosen myself up," Agassi added. "But I didn't convert on the big points."
Mirza makes Indian tennis history Teenager Sania Mirza completed a superb week at the Hyderabad Open by becoming the first Indian in history to win a WTA singles title. In front of a delirious home crowd, the 18-year-old battled past Alyona Bondarenko of the Ukraine 6-4 5-7 6-3. Mirza, ranked 134 in the world, sunk to her knees in celebration after serving out the match against Bondarenko. "It is a big moment in my career and I would like to thank everyone who has been a part of my effort," she said. "This win has made me believe more in myself and I can now hope to do better in the coming days. "I wanted to win this tournament very badly since it was in my hometown." At the Australian Open in January, Mirza became the first Indian woman to reach the third round of a Grand Slam before losing to eventual champion Serena Williams. And a year ago, she became the youngest Indian to win a professional title by claiming the doubles at the Hyderabad Open. Mirza, playing in her first WTA final, began nervously in front of a raucous home crowd - committing three double faults in her opening service game. But from 0-2 down, Mirza broke serve twice in a row and held on to her advantage to take the first set. In a see-saw second set, Bondarenko raced into a 5-2 lead and though Mirza hauled herself level, the Ukrainian broke again before finally levelling the match. Mirza rediscovered the aggressive strokes that took her to the first set in the decider established a 5-2 lead. At 5-3, the stadium erupted in celebration when Mirza thought she had delivered an ace to secure victory but the serve was ruled to have clipped the net. Mirza eventually lost the point but to the relief of the crowd, she broke Bondarenko again in the next game to clinch the title.
Roddick to face Saulnier in final Andy Roddick will play Cyril Saulnier in the final of the SAP Open in San Jose on Sunday. The American top seed and defending champion overcame Germany's Tommy Haas, the third seed, 7-6 (7-3) 6-3. "I was feeling horrible earlier in the week," Roddick said. "I thought tonight was a step in the right direction." Saulnier battled to a 6-7 (3-7) 6-3 6-3 win over seventh seed Jurgen Melzer, who twisted his ankle early in the second set. Roddick won the last four points of the first-set tie-break before being broken at the start of the second set. But he broke straight back and then broke Haas again to lead 4-2. "It's extremely frustrating when you have chances against a top-five player and don't do anything with them," admitted Haas. "I rushed a few backhands and he took advantage." Saulnier will move into the world's top 50 for the first time after his passage through to the final. "It's taken a lot of work and a lot of fighting in my mind," he revealed. "Sometimes I didn't believe I could get to a final and now I am here. I've stayed mentally strong. "I'm on the way. I'll keep fighting and work a lot and I'll be up there."
Australia miss Molik for Fed Cup Australia will be without their leading player Alicia Molik for the Fed Cup round robin matches in India in April. The world number 10 was not included in new captain John Alexander's squad as she is focusing on her singles career. "Alicia has a real opportunity to achieve a number one world ranking and has a particular schedule designed to achieve that," Alexander explained. World number 46 Samantha Stosur, plus Nicole Pratt, Evie Dominikovic and Bryanne Stewart form the squad. Alexander insisted that the team was fully behind Molik's request not to play. "The Fed Cup is an awkward date and the geographical location for these first events and really would have stuffed up the first part of her year," he said. "When all things are considered Tennis Australia has to consider looking after our players holistically and when someone has a great opportunity like this, we have to be behind them." China, Taiwan, India, Korea, New Zealand, Singapore and Kazakhstan are the other nations competing in New Delhi from 18-24 April.
Clijsters sets up Venus match-up Kim Clijsters continued her comeback from a wrist injury with a 7-5 6-7 6-1 win over Russia's Nadia Petrova in round two of the Antwerp Diamond Games. The Belgian will meet fellow former world number one Venus Williams in the quarter-finals after the American swept past France's Virginie Razzano 6-3 6-0. Clijsters, sidelined since October, edged a high-quality first set. But Petrova hit back in a second-set tiebreak before Clijsters pulled clear in the decider, breaking three times. "Everything's fine with the wrist," said Clijsters. "I could do everything I wanted to with my backhand - long backhand cross rallies, slicing. I really enjoyed every backhand. "I had the intention of wearing Petrova down and I did. It was a relief to win a three-set match. "These are the kind of matches I have been looking forward to for a long time." And the Belgian is looking forward to facing a severe test from Williams. "A quarter-final against Venus is a nice prospect," said Clijsters. "I saw her play and she is very strong right now, completely focused. "It will be difficult on Friday, but fun as well." Third seed Williams, who will get a gold and diamond-encrusted racket should she add to her 2002 and 2003 event wins, was barely troubled against Razzano. "My tennis was very good today," she said. "But it is no surprise to me because I feel very healthy and have been working well lately."
Injured Roddick quits in Memphis Andy Roddick has pulled out of his semi-final at the RMK Championships in Memphis after spraining his left ankle. The American top seed was was supposed to face Dane Kenneth Carlsen, who now advances to the final against eighth seed Max Mirnyi of Belarus. He came through his semi-final against German second seed Tommy Haas 7-5 6-3. Roddick, the 2003 US Open champion, was hurt during his quarter-final win on Friday and had intensive treatment on his ankle to no avail. He attempted to loosen up his foot by jogging on Saturday, then tried to hit a couple of balls. "The first really kind of significant move I made I just knew that it wasn't going to happen for me," Roddick said. He decided to pass on a chance to win his second tour title in two weeks in part because he wants to be healthy for the US team's Davis Cup match against Croatia in a fortnight. "The repercussions of this injury wouldn't just affect me. It would affect my team-mates and playing for my country as well," Roddick said.
Henman hopes ended in Dubai rain Third seed Tim Henman slumped to a straight sets defeat in his rain-interrupted Dubai Championships quarter-final against Ivan Ljubicic. The Croatian eighth seed booked his place in the last four with a 7-5 6-4 victory over the British number one. Henman had looked on course to level the match after going 2-0 up in the second set, but his progress was halted as the rain intervened again. Ljubicic hit back after the break to seal a fourth straight win over Henman. Earlier in the day, Spanish fifth seed Tommy Robredo secured his semi-final place when he beat Nicolas Kiefer of Germany 6-4 6-4. The rain means the other quarter-finals between Roger Federer and Mikhail Youzhny and Andre Agassi and Nikolay Davydenko will now be played on Saturday. Henman was left cursing the weather and the umpire after seven breaks for rain during his match. "It was incredibly frustrating," Henman said. "It's raining and the umpire doesn't take control. "He kept telling us to play till the end of the game. But if it's raining, you come off - the score's irrelevant. "It couldn't be more frustrating as I was very happy with my form until now. You don't expect this in the desert." The rain meant the two remaining quarter-finals - Roger Federer against Mikhail Youzhny and Andre Agassi versus Nikolay Davydenko - were postponed until Saturday.
Agassi into second round in Dubai Fourth seed Andre Agassi beat Radek Stepanek 6-4 7-5 in the first round of the Dubai Tennis Championships. The 34-year-old, moving well despite a hip problem which needed an injection, served well and won 80% of his first serve and 76% of his second. But the American could not break the Czech Stepanek until the final game of the first set and in the second he had to fight back after losing his serve. Agassi, making his first appearance at the event, received a standing ovation. He said: "I have had a few great days here in Dubai. I have waited a long time to be here, and I must apologise for being so late." Other first-day winners included Spaniards Juan Carlos Ferrero and Tommy Robredo, Dominik Hrbaty of Slovakia and Germany's Rainer Schuettler. Ferrero, the 2001 champion, overcame Florian Mayer of Germany 6-3 6-4 while Robredo had to fight hard to beat Olivier Rochus of Belgium 7-6 (7-5) 7-6 (7-5). Hrbaty crushed Omar Bahrouzyan of the United Arab Emirates 6-0 6-4 while Schuettler beat Younes Al Aynaoui of Morocco 6-0 6-1. Ferrero could now meet top seed Roger Federer - who faces qualifier Ivo Minar on Tuesday - in the second round. British rivals Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski will face each other in the opening round on Tuesday.
Mauresmo fights back to win title World number two Amelie Mauresmo came from a set down to beat Venus Williams and win the Diamond Games in Antwerp. Mauresmo, who lost to Dinara Safina in the final of the Paris Indoor Open last week, beat the third seed 4-6 7-5 6-4 for her first title of the season. The Frenchwoman produced some superb volleys in the final set and claimed victory on her fifth match point after two hours and 18 minutes. "This was a great final for a great tournament," she said. "I am so happy because the quality of my game went up and up during the whole week until the final, this is the result of all the work I have done with my coach." Williams was seeking her third title in Antwerp having won it on her two previous visits in 2002 and 2003. The defeat means she has now gone 11 tournaments without a title, the longest drought of her career. "Amelie deserves her win, she played so well," she said.
Federer wins title in Rotterdam World number one Roger Federer won the World Indoor Tournament in Rotterdam with a battling 5-7 7-5 7-6 victory over Ivan Ljubicic on Sunday. The Swiss star was made to work hard by Ljubicic, who also lost to Federer in last month's final in Doha. The Croatian broke his serve for the first time in the tournament to take the first set, but Federer hit back and took the decider on a tie-break. He has now won his last 15 finals after triumphing in two hours and 42 minutes. Federer said: "Today it was very close and it could have gone either way but I'm happy I fought through because this might be a crucial victory for me for the rest of the season. "I knew I had to fight hard today and that's exactly what happened. "I played one shocking game to be broken. He took advantage of it and broke me to love but I still felt I gave that game away. "That haunted me all the way, right until match point. I fought well today so I'm happy."
GB players warned over security Britain's Davis Cup players have been warned not to go out of their Tel Aviv hotel unaccompanied ahead of the weekend's tie against Israel. A suicide bombing in a nightclub in the city on Friday claimed four victims. "We spoke about the bomb and we were told that we must not leave the hotel on our own," Andrew Murray told the Daily Telegraph. "Jeremy (Bates, GB captain) told us to be careful when we go out of the hotel and not to do anything stupid." But Murray insisted that the team, which also includes Greg Rusedski, Arvind Parmar, David Sherwood and reserve Alex Bogdanovic, has been able to concentrate on the task ahead. "The bomb went off just a few miles from where we are staying," said 17-year-old Murray. "I will try not to think about what happened but I don't think it will have any effect on the British team's concentration. We will be safe if we stay in the hotel and the tennis centre." Speaking on Saturday, team captain Bates said: "It was a terrible thing, a very unfortunate thing, but I think that sport must go on. "I think that there are a lot of people involved in this event who have obviously taken great care to make sure the event runs smoothly." An LTA statement said: "We have every confidence in the organisation and security of this tie. "We will continue to monitor the situation carefully." The team arrived in Tel Aviv on Saturday and practised on the hard courts at the Ramat Hasharon arena on Sunday.
Sharapova overcomes tough Molik Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova recovered from losing the opening set to win the final of the Qatar Open. The second seed beat fourth-seeded Australian Alicia Molik 4-6 6-1 6-4 for her second title of the year. Molik, who had overcome top seed Amelie Mauresmo in Friday's semi-final, broke Sharapova in the third game of a first set she went on to win. But Sharapova recovered to build up a healthy 5-0 lead in the second set and she never looked back after that. Molik saw her game fall apart as Sharapova broke in the fifth game of the decider to lead 3-2. And although Molik stayed in touch, Sharapova held on to her serve and then finished off the match with an ace after saving a break point in the 10th game. Sharapova said the key to her victory was her positive approach after losing the first set. "Alicia was dictating terms to me in the first set but in my mind I was always positive," said Sharapova. "In the first set I was not playing my own game, but in the second I decided to put some pace on the ball and put pressure on her serve and that worked." Sharapova said she will head to Los Angeles to be with her mother and have some rest after her recent hectic schedule. "I need some rest now and I am eager to see my mum and catch up with friends after all the travelling I've been doing."
